1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Acting Locally, Leading Globally with Build Now: An 
interdisciplinary, collaborative research and training 
program focused on affordable housing innovation in 
Waterloo Region 
 
Draft Prepared by Leia Minaker 
April 21, 2025

2 
 
Executive Summary:  
Background: Canada faces a growing housing affordability crisis. Average home prices have 
surged 77% in a decade, now exceeding $710,000—far outpacing median incomes and locking 
many younger Canadians out of ownership. This erosion of generational equity has even been 
flagged by the RCMP as a national security concern. The crisis is driven by multiple factors, 
including rapid population growth, limited land and housing supply, regulatory constraints, and 
rising construction costs exacerbated by labour shortages. 
Despite the long-term benefits of home ownership—financial security, social mobility, 
health, and well-being—Canadian housing policy remains focused primarily on rentals. 
Meanwhile, housing development has major environmental consequences, from habitat loss and 
emissions during construction to long-term transportation impacts. 
Pitch: Addressing the challenge of creating affordable, suitable, and sustainable home ownership 
in Canada requires a fundamental shift in how we think about and build housing. The Future Cities 
Institute proposes a world-class Living Lab in Waterloo Region to advance a transformational 
affordable housing model. This initiative leverages the Build Now Waterloo Region initiative, a 
$500-million initiative led by Habitat for Humanity to build 10,000 new “missing middle” homes—
70% for ownership—by 2030.  
Through interdisciplinary research, experiential learning, and local and international 
partnerships, the Build Now Living Lab will assess and amplify the economic, health, 
sustainability, technological and societal impacts of community-led housing — creating local 
solutions with global relevance. 
Global Futures Funds will leverage at least $500,000 in external funding to support 
research, training, and partnership development. Research activities include the Global Futures 
Seed Funding competitions and FCI Postdoctoral research pilot funds. Training activities include 
future cities capstones, CIVIC co-op positions, and Build Now Innovation Challenges. Finally, 
service and partnership development activities include City Sprints, and Capacity Development 
through the European Network of Living Labs (ENoLL).  
Currently, over 40 faculty members from all six Faculties are participating in our proposal. External 
partners include local (e.g., the Waterloo Region Community Foundation, the Build Now team), 
and international experts (e.g., ENoLL).  
The Build Now Living Lab directly addresses a nationally urgent, socially complex challenge 
with the potential for real and lasting impact. It proposes a novel model of interdisciplinary, data-
informed, and community-embedded research within a large-scale real-world development. It 
brings together academia, civil society, industry, and government in a true partnership, positioning 
our Region as a global leader in housing innovation. The Living Lab will provide the evidence, tools, 
and scalable models needed to fundamentally reshape how communities are built—transforming 
housing from a source of crisis to a platform for prosperity, well-being, and sustainability.

3 
 
VISION: The Future Cities Institute envisions a world-class Living Lab in Waterloo Region that 
advances a new model of attainable and affordable housing. Through interdisciplinary research 
and training, collaborative “Quadruple Helix” partnerships, and data-driven urban decision-
making, the Living Lab will assess and amplify the economic, health, sustainability, technological 
and societal impacts of community-led housing — creating local solutions with global relevance. 
 
LIVING LABS: Living Labs are real-world research and innovation environments where end-
users are active participants in co-creating and testing solutions to the world’s most pressing 
issues. Living Labs foster innovation among main actors in the Quadruple Helix Model: citizens, 
government, academia, and industry. As a core principle, our Living Lab is committed to open 
data, knowledge mobilization, experiential learning opportunities for students, authentic 
community partnerships and democratization of the tools and recommendations we generate.  
CONTEXT: Build Now Waterloo Region is a community-led housing initiative that plans to build 
10,000 new “missing middle” homes in Waterloo Region, Ontario by 2030 (70% ownership, 30% 
rental). Home ownership has been one of the most important wealth building and economic 
prosperity engines for families in North America for decades. However, in the past decade, home 
ownership has become out of reach for many young Canadians, and represents a national 
security threat, according to the RCMP . However, to date, attempts to create affordable home 
ownership opportunities have been limited to small developments led by Habitat for Humanity. 
Affordable housing projects in Canada are overwhelmingly focused on rentals, which do not 
confer the same economic or health and well-being related benefits as home ownership. Build 
Now is led by Habitat for Humanity but represents a strong coalition between two local 
developers, a local construction association, the municipalities, a local housing cooperative, and 
the Future Cities Institute. To date, the team has two parcels of land entrusted by Kitchener and 
Waterloo and they are actively seeking other municipal partnerships for additional parcels. The 
first parcel on which they will build over 1000 units of housing is a 25-acre/$20 million parcel in 
north Waterloo, with the first 50 units needing to be approved and permitted by December 2025. 
They have not yet broken ground.  
No urban problem is unique. Problems facing the Region of 
Waterloo are facing Canadian communities from Vancouver to St. 
John’s, and from Windsor to Iqaluit. Although we are using Build Now 
as a case study in this proposal, findings will have relevance to all 
cities in Canada. The FCI is deeply committed to knowledge 
mobilization, and will create a repository of open access reports, tools, 
and recommendations accessible for all Canadian communities.

4 
 
ALIGNMENT WITH ENVIRONMENT 2035: 
1. How does the initiative outlined in your LOI contribute to Environment 2035 and/or 
Environment’s role in Global Futures Networks? 
By co-creating affordable housing solutions with Habitat for Humanity, we aim to: 
• Accelerate innovation in urban sustainability and climate adaptation  
• Strengthen research connections both within ENV and with other faculties 
• Train the next generation of interdisciplinary leaders 
• Showcase solutions that are scalable across municipalities  
• Foster strong, transparent partnerships between academia, industry, and community 
 
In terms of alignment with Environment 2035, the following are examples of how this project 
aligns with each of the four priority areas.  
1. Climate Change Adaptation and Mitigation 
• Heat and flood risk mitigation 
• Climate-resilient design and natural infrastructure 
• Renewable energy integration 
2. Cities of the Future 
• Housing innovation 
• Livability and inclusive urban design 
• Smart, sustainable infrastructure and digital planning 
3. Natural Resources and Environment 
• Urban biodiversity and water management 
• Green and blue infrastructure in residential developments 
• Land use for resilience and sustainability 
4. Sustainable Transitions: Energy and Finance 
• Green infrastructure financing models 
• Business models and economic assessment for municipal sustainability investments 
• Distributed energy load interventions in residential settings 
 
2. What resources/supports (if any) do you anticipate needing from the Faculty of 
Environment should your project move ahead? 
None beyond what the Faculty is already doing to support the Future Cities Institute.

5 
 
INNOVATION: Build Now represents a $500 million investment in our Region that is moving 
quickly. Table 1 describes housing innovations unique to the Build Now initiative within the realm 
of affordable housing projects in North America.  
Table 1. Build Now innovation compared to standard practice for affordable housing projects  
 Standard Practice Build Now  
Affordable 
housing focus 
Rentals Predominantly ownership (70% of 
units) 
Initiative 
partners 
Governments, social enterprises 
or not-for-profits 
Developers, governments, social 
enterprises and not-for-profits, 
construction association, and 
academia 
Trust Lack of trust between 
municipalities/not-for-profits and 
for-profit developers 
Building trust between all partners 
has been a key component of the 
work to date 
Procurement Municipality-led affordable 
housing projects require 
procurement practices that result 
in a cost of development for well 
above market prices.  
Opening the procurement pipeline 
through partnership with the 
Grand Valley Construction 
Association means that cost of 
development can be procured for 
fair market prices.  
 
Figure 1 shows the conceptual site plan presented to the City of Waterloo for the 25 acre parcel. 
Buildings range from stacked townhomes to 12 storey buildings, with greenspace and “plaza” or 
“public square” space prioritized.  
 
Figure 1. Conceptual Site Plan for Build Now 25-acre build (1010 units at 2025 University Ave. E)

6 
 
BUDGET 
Global Futures Funding will leverage over $500,000 in external funding. The team is also submitting an NFRF Transformation 
proposal in the amount of approximately $20 million, and will be actively pursuing NSERC, CIHR and SSHRC funding over the 
next five years, as well as other governmental and industry sponsored research aligned with the project.   
Table 2: Budget  
CATEGORY  TOTAL PROJECT 
BUDGET  
GFF Request 
Year 1 
(2024-2025) 
GFF Request 
Year 2 
(2025-2026) 
GFF  Request 
Year 3 
(2026-2027) 
FUNDED BY 
OTHERS 
RESEARCH            
GFN  Coordinator  $275,436.00 $90,000.00 $91,800.00 $93,636.00 $0.00 
Global Futures Seed Funds  $990,000.00 $90,000.00 $90,000.00 $90,000.00 $60,000.00 
TRAINING                                                                                                                  
Interdisciplinary Capstone PLUS 
Projects  $150,000.00 $25,000.00 $25,000.00 $25,000.00 $75,000.00 
CIVIC $302,400.00 $10,800.00 $10,800.00 $10,800.00 $270,000.00 
Build Now Innovation Challenge  $126,000.00 $25,000.00 $25,000.00 $25,000.00 $51,000.00 
Build Now Problem Lab  $30,000.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $30,000.00 
SERVICES AND PARTNERSHIP 
DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                                   
City Sprints  $45,000.00 $5,000.00 $5,000.00 $5,000.00 $30,000.00 
European Network of Living Labs 
(ENoLL) In-Person Supports  $6,600.00 $4,200.00 $2,400.00     
TOTAL $1,265,436.00 $250,000.00 $250,000.00 $249,436.00 $516,000.00

7 
 
GFN Coordinator (Coordinator). The Coordinator, working at the FCI and reporting to 
the Managing Director, provides overall coordination to the research, training and service 
activities described below. The Coordinator will be a USG 8, and would be a net new staff 
member to the FCI (contingent on funding). The Coordinator will have experience in 
coordinating large interdisciplinary research teams with large budgets. (~$90,000/year) 
Research 
Global Futures Seed Funds. FCI will coordinate seed funding for interdisciplinary project 
ideas aligned with Build Now activities. To obtain funding, research projects must be based 
on questions that have been co-created with Build Now and/or other external community 
partners. Each research team must include at least two faculty members from different 
faculties, and must include a Build Now team member or community member. Eligible 
proposals will include applied research that directly addresses issues of importance to 
external partners.   
We are allocating $15,000 per year for each of the five global futures plus the Emerging 
Opportunities Team. ($90,000/year) 
Training 
Interdisciplinary Capstone Plus (i-Cap+). The FCI helped coordinate the University’s first 
fully interdisciplinary capstones that included approximately 120 students from all six 
faculties, with the theme of Future Cities. The FCI leveraged its relationships with 
municipalities, industry and NGO partners to elicit project ideas, which were presented to 
students. The Provost’s Interdisciplinary Funding was awarded to Dean Wells for 
2024/2025 and 2025/2026 to establish and set up processes for the i-Cap. $37,500 per 
year of the budget was allocated to the FCI, which paid for existing staff time to a) engage in 
business development with municipal, industry and civil-society partners to submit project 
ideas; b) organize the launch and the final i-Cap event; c) coordinate meetings between 
external partners and student groups.  
In 2025/2026 and beyond, the FCI will build on the i-Cap success by undertaking the i-Cap 
PLUS. Briefly, the i-Cap PLUS will coordinate Future Cities-related projects both for i-Cap 
students but also for other capstone projects around the campus. For example, in 2025, 
fourth year Urban Planning students had their standard 4-month capstone project, did not 
participate in the Future Cities i-Cap. The FCI will seek to engage other capstone 
instructors and students across the Faculties to engage in projects related to Build Now 
and/or other future cities-related projects. ($25,000 per year)

8 
 
CIVIC Response Team. FCI recently launched the CIVIC initiative: City/Community 
Innovation via Internships & Co-op. Industry partners and municipalities fund CIVIC 
positions, and financial resources are matched via MITACS and other sources to maximize 
value of external partner contributions. This collaborative framework benefits both the 
partner and the broader research community. Between September 2024 and September 
2025, the FCI will have hired 9 co-op students to support research projects driven by 
external partners. As we continue to build our networks with municipalities, it is becoming 
clearer that solid partnerships rely on our timely responses to city needs. Therefore, the FCI 
is investing in a continuous stream of talented co-op students who can push projects 
forward quickly.  
The FCI will hire two senior-year co-op students per term to respond to research and 
training needs identified by both internal and external partners. The co-op students each 
term will be from different faculties, but they will work together on emerging issues to 
increase their interdisciplinary training experience at Waterloo. The FCI will leverage 
external partner funding (at $45,000/year), MITACS funding (at $45,000 per year) and Global 
Futures Funds (at $11,000 per year) to cover the cost of six co-op students per year.  
($11,000 per year). 
Build Now Innovation Challenge. Over the course of two weeks, University of Waterloo 
students will team up across disciplines to take on real-world challenges through the Build 
Now Innovation Challenge. Focused on accelerating local housing solutions, this challenge 
invites students to develop bold, creative ideas that tackle some of the most urgent issues 
in housing and community development. The Innovation Challenge creates a fast-paced, 
low-risk environment where students can apply classroom learning and cutting-edge 
research to tangible, place-based problems. By working closely with municipal staff, 
housing experts, and community partners, students receive rapid feedback and valuable 
insights, learning how to turn their ideas into practical, scalable solutions. ($25,000 per 
year) 
Future Builders Tour: Exploring Circularity, Community & Construction. The Future 
Builders Tour is an immersive, multi-stop experience designed to introduce students to 
real-world affordable housing projects across Waterloo Region. Open to students from all 
faculties with an interest in impact-driven community housing innovation, this annual 
experience connects participants with three key sites: 
• Habitat for Humanity ReStore (Waterloo) – Learn how circular economy principles 
are applied through reclaimed materials, resale strategies, and community 
programming.

9 
 
• Habitat for Humanity Build Sites (Cambridge/Kitchener/Waterloo) – Visit active 
construction sites and see how accessible housing is being built with volunteers, 
students, and sustainable materials. 
• BUILD NOW Innovation Site (Waterloo) – Explore the frontlines of modular and net-
zero housing innovation. Learn how rapid, scalable solutions are being developed to 
address Canada's housing crisis. 
This tour will be first piloted in Summer 2025 in partnership with the Engineering Ideas 
Clinic’s Sustainability Fellowship, including participation from first year We Accelerate 
students, international capstone students, and upper-year engineering students. After the 
initial pilot, we would like to expand access and offer the Future Builders Tour to a broader 
range of students through a recurring annual program. 
Build Now Problem Lab. At the intersection of Training and Partnership Development, the 
Problem Lab at the University of Waterloo will host two Build Now Problem Labs per year. 
Students, external partners, and faculty will engage in three-hour workshops to more 
deeply understand a particular problem related to affordable housing innovation. The 
Problem Lab will provide in-kind contributions for the first Build Now problem lab ($5000 
in-kind contribution), with our team raising external funds of $5000 per Problem Lab 
thereafter.   
Service and Partnership Development  
City Sprints. City Sprints are an FCI initiative, adapted from Google Ventures’ Design Sprint 
Methods, that bring together municipal, industry, and civil society partners to focus on 
problem solving over a 1-2 day time frame. Participants are given reading materials and 
problem statements in advance of the Sprint, and move through activities from Mapping 
the Problem to Sketching Solutions, Storyboarding Solutions and Next Steps. The FCI will 
co-host the meetings with the Waterloo Region Community Foundation, which will 
contribute $10,000/year towards the organization and creation of work packages that result 
from these workshops. ($5000 per year)  
ENoLL Capacity Development. To set up our Living Lab, we will leverage the supports 
provided by the European Network of Living Labs (ENoLL), a global leader in fostering user-
centered, real-world innovation environments. We plan to participate in ENoLL’s capacity-
building programs, including the Virtual Learning Lab and their foundational toolkits like the 
Living Lab Handbook, to strengthen our team’s capabilities in co-creation and applied 
research. Through ENoLL’s global network, we will access a vibrant community of Living 
Labs, enabling knowledge exchange and potential collaboration on international projects. 
ENoLL will guide our development from concept to implementation, ensuring our Living 
Lab is both impactful and future-focused.

10 
 
Organization: This project will be led by five Global Futures Teams led by faculty from 
across campus, plus one “Emerging Opportunities” Team. Given that housing is a critical 
and urgent priority in Canada, the Emerging Opportunities Team will be responsible for 
identifying and supporting pilot research and partnership development with municipalities 
and organizations aligned with Build Now objectives.  
University Constituents/Partners 
Faculty members from all six Faculties are involved, as are both research stream faculty, 
teaching stream faculty, and Associate Deans work-integrated learning. External to the 
university, our local partners include government, industry, and civil society organizations. 
Partners are described in Table 3.  
Table 3. University team leads 
Role Faculty Name 
University of Waterloo – Research Leads 
Lead – Health Futures Cluster Health Troy Glover 
Lead – Technological Futures Cluster Math David Del Rey Fernandez 
Lead – Sustainability Futures Cluster Environment Michael Drescher 
Lead – Economic Futures Cluster Arts Anindya Sen 
Lead – Societal Futures Environment Katherine Perrott 
Lead – Emerging Opportunities Team Environment Leia Minaker 
University of Waterloo – Training Leads 
Co-Lead – Training Engineering Derek Rayside 
Co-Lead – Training Environment Michael Wood 
 
IMPACT: Natural experiments in city building are rare and precious opportunities. Unlike 
simply observing change in one location over time, a longitudinal study with multiple 
interventions (or land parcel developments) in diverse locations will allow our team to use 
a rigorous study design (that allows us to approach causal attributions) to create world-
class data on how health, economic outcomes, societal goods and policy, technology, and 
sustainability change over time as more homes get built. 
Habitat for Humanity has 50 active affiliates across Canada, serving almost 400 
communities. This is a once-in-a-generation opportunity to come in at the ground floor and 
measure everything that happens – relevant to all Global Futures – over time. Being the 
academic partner on this first-of-its-kind home-building partnership between civil society, 
government, and industry before the first shovel has broken ground allows for an 
unprecedented, huge, collaborative research undertaking that will be interdisciplinary, 
efficient (researchers can leverage the project to apply for additional funding), and globally

11 
 
relevant. FCI’s current partnerships with the Horizon Europe team and African cities mean 
that we can share learnings and learn from global partners.  
Global Futures Alignment 
Aligned with Waterloo at 100, Waterloo has identified five Global Futures: Technological 
futures, Economic futures, Societal futures, Health futures, and Sustainable futures. Each 
of the Global Futures intersects with the others in complex ways. Table 1 shows how the 
Build Now Living Labs either directly or indirectly align with the Global Futures.  
Table 1. Direct and indirect alignment Build Now Living Lab Network and Global Futures 
Global 
Future 
Build Now LL 
Technological Futures 
   Direct Tech innovations born and tested at Waterloo LL can be scaled up in Build Now 
communities 
   
Indirect 
Social acceptance of tech innovations tested over 10 years 
Economic Futures 
   Direct Cost and benefits of Build Now developments are rigorously evaluated 
   
Indirect 
Impact of Build Now on Regional housing affordability; 10 year longitudinal study of 
residents identifies multiple household economic outcomes  
Societal Futures 
   Direct Build Now negotiations with municipalities and trust building are carefully 
documented, including changes to policy and new regulations  
   
Indirect 
10 year longitudinal study of residents identifies multiple societal outcomes 
associated with Build Now developments 
Health Futures 
   Direct 10 year longitudinal study of residents identifies multiple health outcomes associated 
with Build Now development features (e.g., urban design, mixed land use, mobility) 
   
Indirect 
Assessment of healthy built environment and transportation options 
Sustainable Futures 
   Direct Prototyping and testing community energy use and mobility interventions, sustainable 
infrastructure, green and blue infrastructure in residential developments.  
   
Indirect 
How are sustainability-related behaviors of residents tied to other pro-social 
behaviors?

12 
 
Appendix A 
 Global Futures | Waterloo at 100 
 Health Economic Societal Technological  Sustainable 
Phase 1 • Neighbourhood-level 
measures 
• Neighbourhood-level 
measures 
• Neighbourhood-level 
measures 
• Planning policy 
assessment and 
changes 
• Neighbourhood-level 
measures 
• Sensors; land images; 
soil quality? Water 
quality? Air quality? 
(other stuff to ask 
Chris or others about) 
• Biodiversity 
Phase 2 • Noise pollution • Jobs created through 
construction 
• Construction worker 
safety 
 • New technology to 
optimize concrete 
usage 
• Pipe-network sensors  
• Sustainability 
outcomes related to 
housing construction 
• Water quality 
treatment (?) 
• RISE scorecard? 
• Infrastructure 
Phase 3 • Baseline surveys of 
residents with 
residential history; 
health history, etc.  
  • Sensors to monitor all 
other outcomes (e.g., 
traffic,  
• Ecological resilience 
• Assess built/natural 
environments   
Phase 4 • Ongoing residential 
surveys 
• Aging in place 
• Child health 
• Mental health and 
addictions – System 
transformation work 
• Return on investment 
• Quantifying and 
monetizing health 
outcomes (Larry 
Frank) 
• Local GDP  
• Business starts or 
entrepreneurship  
• Insurance (Jason T) 
• Housing market 
changes in cities 
 
• Fertility 
• Children’s 
educational 
attainment 
• Political polarization 
• Social inclusion 
• Residential 
satisfaction 
• Planning policy 
changes 
• Culture and 
entertainment 
• Crime rates 
• Using technology and 
data for data-driven 
decision making.  
• Linking and modeling 
complex data 
• Effective feedback 
loop to feed 
information back to 
city 
• Transportation 
modeling 
• Biodiversity 
• Change in energy, 
water use over time