The Future Cities Institute (FCI) Synthetics Laboratory: Connecting Researchers, Governance, 
Private Industry, and Students through Disruptive Simulations 
Lead Applicant: Dillon T. Browne, Ph.D., C.Psych.  
Canada Research Chair in Child and Family Clinical Psychology | Royal Society of Canada, College 
Member | Founder & Director, FamilyPsycle® Laboratory | Member, Future Cities Institute & 
Waterloo Climate Institute | Department of Psychology, Faculty of Arts, University of Waterloo  
 
Co-Lead Applicant: Leia Minaker 
Director, Future Cities Institute | Associate Professor, School of Planning, Faculty of Environment 
 
Team Members 
Chris Perlman, Associate Professor, School of Public Health Sciences, Faculty of Health 
Adrian Buttazzoni, Postdoctoral Fellow, School of Planning, Faculty of Environment 
Roberto Guglielmi, Assistant Professor, Department of Applied Mathematics. Faculty of Math 
Kate Sellen, George Soulis Chair in Design, Systems Design Engineering, Faculty of Engineering   
[TBD], Faculty of Science 
Dean Bittner, Chief Technology Officer, RunWithIt Synthetics® 
Alison Pearson, Children & Youth Planning Table of Waterloo Region 
 
 
Application Type 
[leverage: up to $200,000] 
 
Expression of Interest (1000 words total)  
12. How does this initiative impact one or more of the five Global Futures? Refer to the Global 
Futures Fund webpage for information on Societal Futures, Health Futures, Sustainable 
Futures, Technological Futures and Economic Futures. 
 
The proposed  project is  to build a  state-of-the-art synthetic modeling laboratory within the 
Future Cities Institute (FCI) at the University of Waterloo (UW) . Given the flexibility of synthetic 
modeling, which includes techniques such as  simulated cities, the initiative  cuts across all five 
Global Futures. Specifically, t he experiential FCI Synthetics Lab  will develop, apply, and 
disseminate advanced technological (i.e., software) solutions, including artificial intelligence 
(AI), modeling, and visualization tools to render and model entire populations of cities . 
Subsequently, compelling, geospatially accurate, and dynamic  simulations of digital twins will be 
tested, exploring scenarios and processes related to infrastructure (e.g., housing, transportation), 
sustainability (e.g., waste management , energy use ), resilience (e.g., natural disasters, power 
outages), and economic conditions (e.g., investment, inequalities). The interface of these inputs 
with human health and well -being will be modeled, disseminated,  and discussed alongside key 
players, including governance, the private sector, and marginalized communities  (i.e., voice 
representatives).  
 
The synthetic approach to data, modeling, and simulation is ideally suited for the testing of “what 
if” scenarios relevant for promoting resilient Global Futures. It is essential for the University of

Waterloo (UW) and Canada to develop and advance such technologies, as we delve deeper into an 
era of rapid technological change and global destabilization. Synthetic data and modeling solutions 
have been used in multiple research sub-specialties, though these areas are seldom integrated into 
simulations that cut across domains  (i.e., lacking interdisciplinarity). Thus, the proposed FCI 
Synthetics Lab will be open and available to all faculty, staff, and students at UW, along side 
government leaders and indus try partners, permitting cross-functional research, innovation, and 
entrepreneurship. The proposed project will catapult FCI’s methodological sophistication, 
transforming the institute and UW into a world class in synthetic computing solutions. 
 
13. How does this initiative leverage existing or emerging strengths at UWaterloo? (Required) Our 
areas of strength exist in our academic and research domains, as well as across our founding 
differentiators (co-op and work-integrated learning, innovation and entrepreneurship, and 
connections to our local region). 
 
Co-op and work-integrated learning: Experiential learning for students is an integral component of 
the proposed laboratory within FCI, which already houses  the Interdisciplinary Capstone (i -Cap) 
course, and presently involves >200 students from all six faculties , including >80 (and growing) 
external partners . Both graduate and undergraduate students will have opportunities to design, 
utilize, and disseminate the data and modeling solutions developed in the FCI Synthetics Laboratory. 
Moreover, the facility will create new opportunities for students (including co-op, and those working 
in applied settings such as industry, governance, non -profit) to engage in research, while providing 
impactful and highly so ught-after insights to partners including employers , funders, and other 
sponsors. This includes FCI’s CIVIC (City/Community Innovation via Internships & Co -ops) 
Response team, which embeds students directly with industry, municipal, and NGO partners. 
Moreover, additional opportunities for student funding will emerge through matching programs such 
as Mitacs. 
 
Innovation & entrepreneurship: The proposed FCI Synthetics Laboratory will synergistically 
interface with UW’s remarkable legacy of innovation and entrepreneurship. This includes FCI’s Build 
Now Student Challenges, where students from all disciplines are invited to work on urgent 
community challenges. The proposed laboratory  reflects a partnership with industry partner, 
RunWithIt® Synthetics, which is a global leader in synthetic data science. This partner was attracted 
to UW because of the intellectual property (IP) policy, in addition to longstanding relationship with 
the study team, and is already engaged with Research Partnerships (Contracts) at UW. The proposed 
arrangement will allow UW researchers and students to develop commercial synthetic modeling 
solutions while retaining ownership . At the same time, the laboratory will generate a revenue 
stream through the sale of research and data services.   
 
Connections to the region: Since its founding, FCI has been closely connected to municipal 
planning and decision-making in Waterloo, including Build Now Waterloo Region, which is a $500M 
initiative led by Habitat for Humanity  to build “missing middle” housing. Moreover, it is guided by 
an advisory board involved in high-level conversations around land development and infrastructure 
needs of local and national communities and has over 50 UW faculty members. FCI also has a close 
relationship in advising the Kitchener-Waterloo Chamber of Commerce.

In addition to FCI’s connections, t his initiative is connected via the FamilyPsycle® Laboratory’s 
(Graham Seed 1.0 recipient, 2023) longstanding connection to family health and social service 
providers in Ontario. Most importantly, the project is backed by the Children and Youth Planning 
Table (CYPT), which is a municipal planning and leadership body, designed to create a single voice 
for promoting child, youth, and family well-being in the region. FamilyPsycle® (Dr. Browne) is the data 
lead for CYPT. There are over 1000 individual members, reflecting 80 organizations  and entities , 
including all seven cities/townships, the YMCA/YWCA, United Way, Regional Police, Waterloo Region 
Community Foundation, foodbanks, schoolboards, post-secondary institutions, public libraries, and 
a variety of health and social service providers, including grassroots organizations supporting 
underserved groups. 
 
14. How does this initiative involve collaboration across academic disciplines and organizational 
units at UWaterloo? (Required) 
 
Basing the proposed laboratory on the science of synthetic data /modeling has major benefits for 
interdisciplinarity and university organizational structure. This approach is theoretically amenable to 
any discipline that utilizes quantitative data (and, increasingly, linguistic data, as well). Keeping with 
the goals of the initiative, the team on this proposal represents all UW faculties . Following 
consultations from Global Futures 1.0 and the Healthy Futures Roundtable, the decision to situate 
this laboratory within FCI will significantly enhance reach by promoting visibility and piggybacking 
onto established university-wide workgroups. Furthermore, the study team includes membership 
in UW’s many centres and institutes  (e.g., Centre for Mental Health Research and Treatment, 
Waterloo Climate Insti tute, Waterloo Institute for Complexity and Innovation, Centre for 
Bioengineering and Biotechnology) who will be engaged throughout project.  
 
15. Describe any existing or planned external partners and opportunities for sustainability of the 
initiative? (Required). If there are no existing or planned external partners/opportunities, use the 
space below to explain why (e.g. for educational initiatives dependent only on internal 
collaboration). 
 
There are several external partners that significantly enhance the sustainability of the initiative.  The 
primary partner is RunWithIt® Synthetics  (RWI: https://rwisynthetics.com/), which is a private 
company and global leader in “synthetic decision intelligence” . This Indigenous owned and women-
led organization has 25 years of experience creating synthetic cities, where their unique advantage 
is the inclusion of entire populations of digital twins in simulations. The FCI Synthetics Lab, and UW 
more broadly, will benefit significantly from RWI’s proven track record of raising significant capital 
from a variety of sources, including grants (e.g., Innovation, Science and Economic Development 
Canada; National Research Council), along with private equity, cutting across topic areas, including 
transportation, utilities, insurance, electric vehicles, disaster  readiness, emissions reduction, and 
space exploration. Other partners include the Waterloo Region Children and Youth Planning Table 
(CYPT), which will serve as a voice representative  and liaison between all 80+ child, youth, and 
family serving organizations and entities in the region. Of course, FCI was founded upon a $10m 
investment from Caivan, which is a major Canadian real estate d eveloper, and leader in the

development of advanced solutions to promote housing affordability.  FCI is an established institute 
at UW with many additional external partners committed to the success of this project.  
16. What top 2 to 3 key activities do you plan to undertake during proposed funding period? 
(Required) 
 
Over the two years  of the requested funding, success will be measured by (1) implanting five 
workgroups of researchers (e.g., one team per Global Future) into the laboratory, where teams are 
comprised of both UW faculty/students and partners in both government and the private/public 
sector, and (2) supporting these teams to attract at least one source of additional funding  
(including grants, contracts, and private investment) using the advanced synthetic modeling 
solutions available in the laboratory. 
 
Year 1 activities include:  
(a) install infrastructure (e.g., computing, servers, visualization tools) within FCI, where systems have 
already been approved in Dr. Browne’s $500,000 CFI-JELF attached to his CRC renewal, and;  
(b) complete a test project with study team on diversion of mental health 911 calls that builds upon 
the beta -version of “Synthetic Waterloo” , which has already been const ructed from a  past 
collaboration with RWI, CYPT, the Region of Waterloo, and Dr. Browne.  
 
Year 2 activities include: 
(c)  scaling “tenants” in the FCI Synthetics Laboratory, where 5 teams are invited (one per Global 
Future), who are supported to attract funding based on Synthetic Waterloo, along with the primary 
study team.  
 
Any Other Additional information (200 words) 
The FCI Synthetics Laboratory will create new opportunities for researchers across the entire 
university to approach important Global Futures questions from the methodological stance of 
synthetic decision intelligence. This will result in increased funding (across government and the 
private sector) and increased impact , including traditional scholarly outputs, alongside novel 
approaches to engaging with key decision makers and the community (i.e., compelling visualizations 
and collaborative approaches to research). Developing and a ccessing state-of-the-art tools will 
further raise the university’s global reputation, particularly in the area of advanced synthetic 
simulations, while increasing competitiveness, as high -profile and university -level synthetic 
laboratories are beginning to emerge at other institutions (e.g., Arizona State University’s Global 
Futures Laboratory).  Together, these investments position the FCI Synthetics Laboratory as a 
catalytic hub that not only accelerates discovery and translation  but also ensures the university 
leads—rather than follows—in shaping how synthetic decision intelligence informs high -stakes 
global futures.