GRANT APPLICATION 
Dorothy Killam Fellowship (2025) 
 
Preliminary research abstract (150 words = 5,000 characters) 
In the official language of your choice, please provide a brief, plain-language summary of 
the research being proposed. This plain-language summary will exclusively be used by the 
National Killam Program Office to match your submission with reviewers. The preliminary 
abstract is not used to evaluate your submission. 
Canada is facing a deepening housing affordability crisis. With average home prices 
increasing at a rate that far outpaces median family incomes, many younger Canadians 
have been locked out of home ownership entirely. The crisis stems from complex, 
interrelated factors including population growth, constrained housing supply, regulatory 
barriers, and rising construction costs. 
This program of research will establish a world-class Living Lab in Waterloo Region to 
advance a transformational and scalable model of affordable and attainable housing. This 
initiative leverages the Build Now Waterloo Region project, a $500-million community-led 
initiative to build 10,000 new “missing middle” homes by 2030. Led by Habitat for 
Humanity, Build Now brings together a coalition of private developers, a local construction 
association, municipalities, a housing cooperative, and the University of Waterloo. 
Together, this interdisciplinary alliance will embed rigorous research into all phases of 
home and community building. 
The Living Lab will use mixed methods, community-based approaches, and global 
comparative analysis to generate world-leading insights by: 
1. Evaluating the impacts of community-led housing at the household, 
neighbourhood, and regional levels across five interrelated clusters: (a) Economic; 
(b) Health & Social Well-being; (c) Environmental; (d) Planning & Policy; and (e) 
Transportation.  
2. Amplifying local solutions with global relevance by developing a scalable model for 
inclusive, climate-resilient, community-based housing. 
This project directly addresses a nationally urgent, socially complex challenge with the 
potential for real and lasting impact. It proposes a novel model of interdisciplinary, data-
informed, and community-embedded research within a large-scale real-world

development. It brings together academia, civil society, industry, and government in a true 
partnership, positioning Canada as a global leader in housing innovation. The Living Lab 
will provide the evidence, tools, and scalable models needed to fundamentally reshape 
how communities are built—transforming housing from a source of crisis to a platform for 
prosperity, well-being, and sustainability. 
 
[SHORTER VERSION – 150 WORDS] 
This is the one I submitted 
Canada is at a crossroads in housing. With affordability at a breaking point, many are 
locked out of homeownership. Anchored in the $500-million Build Now initiative led by 
Habitat for Humanity, this research explores the partnerships, function, and potential 
scalability of a unique affordable home ownership model in a >1000 unit, 25-acre “missing 
middle” housing development in Ontario. Federal funding enabled Waterloo to entrust land 
to Habitat, who provides affordable home ownership in perpetuity. Ontario introduced 
legislation exempting Build Now from development charges. The local construction 
association contributed their market-rate procurement process and workforce training 
programs. Local for-profit developer partners waived profit margins. Together, these 
partnerships and processes will result in housing sold at half the market rate. Documenting 
the multisector partnerships and implementation process has potential for scaling this 
model to the 400 communities across Canada served by Habitat, and could have a 
transformative impact on affordable housing.  
Notes from conversation with OR people:  
• Project that’s finished or near to finish at the end of 2 years.  
• Additional funding – How this funding at this time is critical  
• Show that this is urgent project. This is the right time in my career AND for the world.  
• Turn it into a 2 year project so you have a deliverable. January 1 2027. Write it as 
though the critical timing is 27/28.   
 
Research Abstract (250 words): 
 
 
Research Proposal (Up to 1,500 words with up to 5 additional pages for references):

• Qualitative interviews with key players – who brings what to the table, how did this 
model come about, what are the potential gaps?  
• Documenting and analyzing the process:  
o Legal 
o Regulatory 
o Public participation 
o Financing 
o Partnerships with organizations 
o In-moving of residents 
 
Methods What will be achieved Hypothesis Advancing knowledge 
Qualitative interviews 
with key partners 
Deep understanding 
of history, 
partnerships, systems 
map 
 This housing model has not 
been tried before – deeply 
understanding the 
parnterships and history 
will help to understanding 
housing innovation 
Regular meetings with 
key partners 
Rigorous 
documentation of the 
process, ways to 
overcome obstacles, 
understanding 
barriers and 
facilitators to the 
process 
 Same as above 
Social Network 
Analysis 
SNA maps 
relationships between 
actors (individuals, 
organizations) in a 
system. It uses 
metrics like centrality, 
density, and 
betweenness to 
identify influential 
nodes, clusters, and 
communication 
patterns. 
 These methods will help me  
understand both the 
partnership dynamics and 
the operational processes 
that enable this innovative 
housing model. 
Process Mapping These diagrams focus 
on sequences of 
activities and 
decisions, showing 
how processes flow 
through a system. 
Common variants

include flowcharts, 
swimlane diagrams, 
and value stream 
maps. 
Knowledge 
mobilization 
Build Now in a Box  Systems map 
 
    
 
Impact 
• Documenting the process, partnerships, and pieces to make this happen, and then 
exploring the scalability of this model could potentially transform the way housing is 
built in this country.  
• Indicators – how many media outlets pick up the story, how many other 
communities express interest in implementing this.  
Knowledge mobilization plans 
• Build Now in a Box – the whole point of this research is to develop a guidebook for 
other municipalities who want to try a similar model.  
• Through contacts with FCM, AMO, FCI Annual conference, Habitat for Humanity, 
OBCM contacts 
Builds on or is different from existing projects 
• Have always done research on built environment and human social and health 
outcomes; have done research on housing; have always worked with external 
partners. This is the same approach, just to a different topic, which is solutions 
oriented around one of the biggest problems in Canada.  
How funding will enable exploration of new area of research/new project 
• Funding will provide salary support to deeply engage with the partners  
• As FCI director, I’ll also be helping coordinate and support multiple research 
projects around this topic related to environmental, economic, and social 
outcomes.