CFI-JELF 2025 Proposal 
Project Title: Future Cities Institute Research Infrastructure: Living Labs and CivicInquire 
Policy Platform 
 
1 PROJECT BRIEF: Using simple, concise sentences describe in no more than three lines the 
objective and key elements of this proposal. If the project is approved, this summary description 
may be used, in whole or in part, in press releases or similar material. 
This project will result in the development of ...

2 PROJECT ABSTRACT: Describe below, in no more than 250 words and in non-scientific 
terms, the major equipment to be purchased, the research to be carried out using the new 
equipment, and how the facility and the research might benefit Ontario. 
Urban planning research is interdisciplinary ...

3 PARTNERS: Please list below any funding partners and those with whom you may be 
collaborating in establishing the facility and in conducting the research. 
Funding Partners: Give names and amounts received or anticipated. 
1. Canada Foundation for Innovation – John R. Evans Leaders Fund: $XX,XXX, anticipated 
2. Vendor, In-kind: $XX,XXX, received 
Research Partners: Give names of individuals and institutions and the nature of the 
collaborative work. 
Drs. Minaker (Lead, University of Waterloo), Chen (Co-Applicant, University of Waterloo), and 
Butt (Co-Applicant, University of Waterloo) will share the infrastructure to establish a secure 
research and project management server and system to support both current and future 
interdisciplinary urban research related to the Future Cities Institute (FCI) mandate.

4 EV ALUATION CRITERIA: In determining whether to approve the project for ORF funding 
support, the Ministry will consider the degree to which the proposal will address specific 
evaluation criteria. Identify in the sections below how the project will address these objectives: 
Quality: The proposed research or technology development is of high quality and originality, 
meets international standards, and will lead to innovation. 
 
Expertise: Researchers must have the expertise and commitment to conduct world-class 
research or technological development. 
 
Need: The infrastructure is essential and appropriate for the proposed activity. 
The requested infrastructure is critical to achieve the objectives of this research project. Details 
are provided below: 
Equipment Band 1 – Computing Infrastructure 
Specs include: 
PowerEdge R7715 Rack Server =~$31,000 (USD) 
Logitech Rally Bar Mini All-In-One Video Bar for Small to Medium Rooms = =~$4,000 (USD) 
Website Security Stuff for CivicInquire(?) – Helen/Pedro could help out with this 
 
Equipment Band 2 – Field Data Collection Devices 
Specs include: 
Latitude 7350 Detachable (x3) = ~$6,000 (USD) 
 
Training: Creating or strengthening an environment that attracts high quality trainees and 
imparts the new high-level skills to HQP for research and other careers. 
 
Partnerships: Any required collaborations or partnerships are appropriate and already in place 
or under development. 
 
Benefits: Research using the proposed infrastructure will have the potential to lead to social or 
economic benefits.