Leia Minaker DRAFT  12/15/2025 
Land Use Regulation and Municipal Development 
Financing: Innovation to Accelerate Housing Supply and 
Affordability in Canadian Municipalities 
 
1. Establish Research Project Advisory Team  
a. The Advisory Team will include senior leaders from a variety of sectors, 
including industry, government (provincial and local), and the non-profit 
sector.  
b. The role of the Advisory Team is to provide key insights on all aspects of the 
research project, identify emerging promising practices in land-use 
regulations and municipal infrastructure financing, and to facilitate 
connections with key informants.  
c. Initial members include:  
i. Michael Brooks, CEO of REALPAC 
ii. Benjamin Dachis, Vice President of Research and Outreach, Clean 
Prosperity  
iii. Scott Higgins, President at HIP Developments 
iv. Ene Underwood, CEO, Habitat for Humanity, GTA 
v. Lisa Helps, Executive Lead, BC Builds (former 2-term Mayor of 
Victoria, BC) 
vi. Karen Redman, Regional Chair, Region of Waterloo 
vii. Bill Williams, Senior Executive Director of Municipal Infrastructure 
and Planning at the City of Iqaluit.  
viii. Steve Willis, Senior Principal Planner, Stantec 
2. Scoping Literature Review: Academic and grey literature 
a. Research Question: Among municipalities in Canada, to what extent and 
how do 1) land use regulations and 2) municipal infrastructure financing 
impact new housing supply, housing affordability, fiscally sustainable 
growth, and adequacy of community infrastructure and amenities?  
i. POPULATION: Municipalities in Canada 
ii. INTERVENTION:  
1. Land use regulations;  
2. Municipal infrastructure financing 
iii. OUTCOMES:

Leia Minaker DRAFT  12/15/2025 
1. New housing supply (speed of housing supply coming online 
as secondary outcome)  
2. Housing affordability 
3. Fiscally sustainable growth (how defined?) 
4. Community infrastructure and amenities 
iv. COMPARISON: at least two municipalities compared; comparison 
over time 
v. TIMELINE: Since 2000  
b. Secondary Research Questions:  
i. Non-Market Housing: How do findings differ in terms of impacts of 1) 
land use regulations and 2) municipal infrastructure financing 
between market and non-market housing?  
ii. Intergovernmental Activities: How have provincial/state 
governments been involved in facilitating or limiting interventions in 1) 
land use regulations and 2) municipal infrastructure financing? 
iii. Municipal Variability: How do the academic and grey literatures 
reflect different types of municipalities (e.g., urban, rural, remote, 
Northern communities; small, medium and large-size municipalities; 
two-tier vs. single tier municipalities; other dimensions of difference 
that emerge)? 
iv. Geographic Variability: Where are innovations happening 1) globally 
and 2) regionally across Canada? 
v. Partnerships: What actors were key to the implementation of novel 1) 
land use regulations and 2) municipal infrastructure financing in the 
literature (e.g., provincial/state governments, municipal governments, 
private sector leaders, non-profit housing developers, etc).  
vi. Unanticipated Outcomes: What other outcomes have been 
identified by the academic and grey literatures as important (outside 
of new housing supply, housing affordability, fiscally sustainable 
growth, and community infrastructure and amenity development.) 
3. Provincial and Territorial Innovation Enablement Scan:  
a. All provincial and territorial planning policies/acts will be reviewed, with a 
focus on the extent to which and how different provinces and territories 
enable innovation in 1) land use regulations and 2) municipal infrastructure 
financing 
4. Advisory Team meetings:  
a. Monthly meetings  
b. Present results of scoping review

Leia Minaker DRAFT  12/15/2025 
c. Present results of P/T innovation enablement scan.  
d. What best practices or worst practices have emerged since 2020?  
e. Recommend key informants  
5. Key informant interviews – Thought Leaders 
a. A purposeful sample of ~ 20 thought leaders identified by CMHC and the 
Advisory Team will be selected to provide insights on the following questions.  
i. Land-Use Regulations: Using land-use regulation tools, how could 
housing supply be accelerated? Using land-use regulation tools, how 
could housing be made more affordable in Canada?  
ii. Municipal Infrastructure Financing: Using municipal infrastructure 
financing tools, how could housing supply be accelerated? Using 
municipal infrastructure financing tools, how could housing be made 
more affordable in Canada? 
iii. Emerging Practices: Are any municipalities in Canada innovating in 
land use regulation or municipal infrastructure financing in ways that 
are accelerating housing supply or housing affordability?  
iv. Intergovernmental partnerships: Can you talk about the role of the 
province/territory in the innovations you’ve identified? Where are P/T-
municipal relationships working well? Can you describe what you 
mean by “working well”?  
b. Thought leaders will be selected based on recommendations from the 
Advisory Team, and will include policy entrepreneurs and experts from 
academia, industry, municipal and provincial or territorial governments, and 
the non-profit sector.  
6. Key informant interviews – Municipalities  
a. Selection: Based on findings from the scoping review, provincial and 
territorial innovation enablement scan, advisory team recommendations, 
and key informant interviews, a purposeful sample of ~20 municipalities will 
be selected to maximize diversity in the following areas:  
i. Region of Canada: Atlantic, BC, Prairies, Ontario, Quebec, Territories  
ii. Municipal Land Use and Regulation Survey results determining 
“higher” and “lower” land use regulation, approval delay, and housing 
unaffordability.  
iii. Municipal size and context: Small, medium, large municipalities, as 
well as Northern and remote communities.   
b. Semi-structured interviews with municipal representatives knowledgeable 
about land use regulations or municipal infrastructure financing will be 
asked questions related to the following topics:

Leia Minaker DRAFT  12/15/2025 
i. Describe the innovation in land use regulations or municipal 
infrastructure financing.  
ii. How are you tracking the impact of this innovation/change to your 
previous practice? What are the KPIs you’re measuring? What impacts 
have you had and over what timeline? What seemed to be the most 
important parts of the innovation? Were there any unanticipated 
consequences of the innovation you implemented? What bottlenecks 
still exist? Do you have plans for continuous tracking and quality 
improvement?  
iii. What cross-sector buy-in or support did you have for this initiative 
(e.g., provincial government, industry, non-profits)? Can you describe 
the partnerships (if any) that were formed to undertake this work?  
iv. Has this model been tried anywhere else? Does (or would) this 
innovation work equally well in rural and urban areas? What other 
aspects of municipal context might be important in terms of 
implementation?  
v. How if at all do the innovations in land-use regulations or municipal 
infrastructure financing change depending on whether the applicant 
is a non-market housing operator/builder?  
7. Synthesis 
a. The final synthesis of all work packages will be an executive summary of 2-3 
pages emphasizing key insights, and a detailed research report (max 40 
pages) in both official languages.