Network for Aging Research Catalyst Grant  
   Application Package Spring 2025 
 
 
Please complete all pages in full and submit to Liz Drolle (nar@uwaterloo.ca)  
by Monday, April 18, 2025 by 4:00PM

Principal Applicant (Contact Person) 
Full name: 
Department: Faculty: 
Email: UW Extension: 
Specify the nature of your appointment (tenured or tenure-track, definite term): 
Principal Applicant (if proũect is coͲled by P/s from two &aculties) 
Full name: 
Department: Faculty: 
Email: UW Extension: 
Specify the nature of your appointment (tenured or tenure-track, definite term): 
CoͲPrincipal Applicant ප CoͲApplicant ප
Full name: 
Department: Faculty: 
Email: UW Extension: 
Please specify if the co-applicant is a faculty member, PhD student or postdoctoral fellow: 
 CoͲPrincipal Applicant ප CoͲApplicant ප
Full name: 
Department: Faculty: 
Email: UW Extension: 
Please specify if the co-applicant is a faculty member, PhD student, postdoctoral fellow:  
End date: 
Applicant etails

Signatures: Provide the name and signature of both the applicant(s) and the co-applicant(s) who 
have confirmed their willingness to play a significant role in the proposed project (scanned or
electronic)
NOTE: If you are successful in receiving a NAR grant, your information (name, contact and project 
information) will be posted on the NAR website and used in promotions from NAR. 
Principal Applicant name: Signature: ate: 
Principal applicant name: Signature: ate: 
CoͲapplicant name: Signature: ate: 
CoͲapplicant name: Signature: ate:

WƌŽũĞĐƚĞƐĐƌŝƉƚŝŽŶ
Project Title: 
 Start date: 
Is this new or exploratory research͍ Or are you examining a new aspect of a current or previous 
project͍ 
,ave you received funding from the NAR Seed 'rant program previously͍ If yes, when͍ 
Preference will be given to researchers who have not previously received funding from this program. If 
you have received funding previously, please attach a one page summary of any outcomes from the 
project that was funded. This should include activities completed and any publications or subsequent 
grants that resulted from the project.
Researchers who have been previously funded by NAR but have not submitted their final report within 
the specified timelines are not eligible for further support from NAR. 
End Date:

Background and :ustification 
e sure to demonstrate a strong relevance to, and convincing rationale for, the importance of your 
research and why it is a priority specifically related to aging. zou should clearly eǆpand on the
impact your research is eǆpected to have in the field of aging.

Proposed Research 
Provide detailed description and justification for your research objectives and methodology with an 
emphasis on scientific eǆcellence. DaŬe a case for the novel or eǆploratory nature of the research you 
are proposing, as well as its feasibility.

dhe Research deam 
ǆplain how the eǆpertise of this team will be complementary in completing this research. 
,YP draining Plan 
etails are required to show how ,YP trainees will be directly involved in a meaningful way. 
ontributions may include such activities as data collection and analysis, report writing, etc., but would 
eǆclude tasŬs that are focused solely on administration andͬor coordination such as data entry, meeting 
scheduling, minute taŬing, distribution of paperworŬ

Plans for ǆternal &unding 
ǆplain the eǆpected outcomes in terms of future contributions to an eǆternal grant application.
<nowledge dranslation Plan 
emonstrate that Ŭnowledge users are involved in a meaningful and integrated manner. A Ŭnowledge 
translation plan should be provided͖ this may include, but is not limited to, communication of research 
findings to the scientific community or lay audiences, or engagement of relevant Ŭnowledge users at 
various points throughout the research project. <nowledge users may include older adults, families, 
decisionͲmaŬers, industry representatives, health care practitioners, or other nonͲresearcher staŬeholders 
who may inform the study process or apply the results in practical settings.

Proposal Budget and :ustification
ligible eǆpenses include travel, meeting costs, personnel, equipment, operating costs, and researchͲ
related eǆpenses.

References