Dorothy Killam Fellowship Award 
AWARD DETAILS AND APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS 
Modified: April 28, 2025 (sgbrown)  
Page 1 of 8 
 
 
FUNDING OPPORTUNITY 
Dorothy Killam Fellowship (2025) 
 
Section 1.0: Relevant links 
 
• Description of award 
• Application portal 
o Email: lminaker@uwaterloo.ca 
o Password: 2025MinLab&FCI  (as of April 28, 2025) 
 
 
Section 2.0: Timelines 
 
• OFFICIAL: Preliminary abstract: April 30, 2025 
• OFFICIAL: Internal deadline: May 15, 2025 
• OFFICIAL: Sponsor deadline: May 20, 2025 
 
 
 
Section 3.0: Brief description 
The Dorothy Killam Fellowships provide support to scholars of exceptional ability by granting them 
time to pursue research projects of broad significance and widespread interest within the 
disciplines of the humanities, social sciences, natural sciences, health sciences, engineering or 
studies linking any of these disciplines. A Dorothy Killam Fellow is relieved of teaching 
and administrative duties for the period of the fellowship.  
 
 
 
Section 4.0: Value of award 
• $80,000 CAD per year for a total of up to $16,000 for 2 years (beginning no later than 
January 1 following notification of the fellowship) 
• The fellowships are awarded to individuals, but the funds are paid to and administered by 
the Canadian university or research institute where the individual is employed. 
• Support may not be requested for less than the full 2-year fellowship period 
• The support for the second year depends on provision and approval of an interim research 
report.   
 
 
Section 5.0: Number of awards 
Five to eight fellowships are awarded each year.

Dorothy Killam Fellowship Award 
AWARD DETAILS AND APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS 
Modified: April 28, 2025 (sgbrown)  
Page 2 of 8 
 
 
Section 6.0: Eligibility requirements 
• A Dorothy Killam Fellow is a leading researcher whose superior, ground-breaking and 
transformative research stands to positively improve the lives of Canadians. A Fellow is 
someone who also reflects some of the Killam attributes: 
o Inclusive collaborator 
o Barrier breaker 
o Research leader 
• The Dorothy Killam Fellowships support scholars who: 
o demonstrate commitment to building Canada’s future and alignment with Killam 
attributes 
o are early- to mid-career researchers (typically have completed their PhD no more 
than 15 years prior) 
o are employed at a Canadian research institution 
 
 
Section 7.0: Conditions of award 
 
Service requirements and acknowledgement 
• Dorothy Killam Fellows are expected to continue contributing to the Canadian research 
community after completion of their fellowship.  
• There are mandatory giveback activities whereby recipients are expected to participate in 
community engagement and/or knowledge mobilization activities.  
• Giveback will provide Fellows with mentorship and networking opportunities, facilitate 
speaking opportunities to encourage the next generation of career researchers, and engage 
Fellows in brand promotion.  
• Fellowship winners are expected to attend award-related events which can include, but are 
not limited to, news conferences, award ceremonies and receptions, and to make 
themselves available for media interviews.  
• They are asked to allow photographs, videos and public information about themselves be 
used to promote the fellowship, as well as to provide copyright permission for the use of 
reproductions or clips of their work on collateral and communications materials associated 
with the Fellowship and on the Killam Trusts’, the National Research Council of Canada’s 
and partner websites and social media channels. 
 
• Individuals that receive funding from the National Killam Program must appropriately 
acknowledge the support of the National Killam Program, and, where applicable, key 
partners in any promotional materials associated with the funded activities.  
• The Killam logo, branding representing the Killam visual identity and/or a written message 
acknowledging Killam support should be included on event signage, on social media and 
web content, on news releases and other promotional material. Recognition must be equal 
to that given to corporate funders or other sponsors or donors for similar support. 
 
Ethics review

Dorothy Killam Fellowship Award 
AWARD DETAILS AND APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS 
Modified: April 28, 2025 (sgbrown)  
Page 3 of 8 
 
• Proof of ethics review and approval is required prior to full release of funding for all 
applicants proposing research involving human participants, and must comply with the 
conditions set out in the Tri-Council Policy Statement: Ethical Conduct for Research 
Involving Humans.  
• This requirement applies to interviews and access to documents affecting the privacy of 
individuals, where living persons or communities may be involved in the proposed 
research, regardless of the discipline(s) involved, and could include areas such as oral 
history and biography.  
• Research involving human participants requiring proof of ethics review and approval also 
includes: 
o when the actions or opinions or responses of human beings are studied in natural or 
staged environments; 
o or when human biological materials (e.g., organs, tissues, cells, body fluids or 
excreta) obtained from living humans, cadavers, embryos or fetal tissues are 
studied; 
o or when personally identifiable, de-identified information or private documents, 
data or other materials including images of the body and personal health data, that 
have not been placed in the public domain with the consent of the person directly 
affected, are studied; 
o or when research involving a secondary use of human biological materials or data 
from human participants as described above, when individual or combined 
information is identifiable or de-identified since its collection. 
 
Knowledge Mobilization 
• In line with Dorothy Killam’s wishes, research funded by the National Killam Program 
should contribute to building Canada’s future through encouraging advanced study. 
Knowledge mobilization is defined as the dynamic and iterative process that: 
o includes synthesis, dissemination, exchange and ethically sound application of 
knowledge to improve the lives of Canadians 
o takes place between researchers and knowledge users and varies in intensity, 
complexity and level of engagement depending on the nature of the research and 
the findings 
• The National Killam Program, informed by the work of the Tri-councils (Natural Sciences 
and Engineering Research Council of Canada, Social Sciences and Humanities Research 
Council of Canada and Canadian Institutes of Health Research), the Royal Society of 
Canada, and the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA), recognizes 
that scholarly contributions are not limited to published journal articles, but can also 
include, amongst other contributions, article preprints, datasets, software, protocols, well-
trained researchers, societal outcomes and policy changes resulting from research. For 
others, this may include community engagement initiatives, media production, or 
educational mentorship programs. 
• Recognizing that knowledge mobilization can be different for each research project, 
applicants are required to include in their research proposal (see below in required 
documents) plans for a proposed knowledge mobilization strategy to share and 
communicate their research beyond traditional modes of scholarly output.

Dorothy Killam Fellowship Award 
AWARD DETAILS AND APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS 
Modified: April 28, 2025 (sgbrown)  
Page 4 of 8 
 
Self-identification 
In alignment with the Canadian Institute of Health Research, the Natural Sciences and Engineering 
Research Council and the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council, the National Killam 
Program asks applicants to voluntarily provide self-identification data. The collection of self-
identification data is a central piece of the National Killam Program’s Equity, Diversity, and 
Inclusion (EDI) Action Plan. This data provides information on the diversity of the population 
applying for and receiving funding. This information increases the National Killam Program’s 
capacity to monitor progress on increasing EDI in their programs, to recognize and remove barriers, 
and to design new measures to achieve greater EDI. 
 
 
Section 8.0: Application requirements 
 
Preliminary Abstract (150 words) * DUE APRIL 30, 2025 
In the official language of your choice, please provide a brief, plain-language summary of the 
research being proposed. This plain-language summary will exclusively be used by the National 
Killam Program Office to match your submission with reviewers. The preliminary abstract is not 
used to evaluate your submission. 
 
Full application * INTERNAL DEADLINE MAY 14, 2025 
• Abstract (250 words) 
o In the official language of your choice, please provide a brief, plain-language 
summary of the research being proposed. Using simple terms, describe the nature 
of the work, why and to whom the research is important, anticipated outcomes, and 
the manner in which this research serves to increase the scientific and scholastic 
attainment of Canadians.  
o This plain-language summary may be made available to peer reviewers, the 
National Killam Selection Committee, and to the public in the event that you are 
selected as a program recipient. If you wish, you may also provide the summary in 
both official languages. 
 
• Research proposal (Up to 1,500 words, plus up to 5 additional pages for references) 
o Information on the proposed research, what is planned to be achieved, a detailed 
description of the approach, hypothesis, and how it advances knowledge in the field 
o Information on and the candidate’s experiences with the proposed methodologies. 
o Information on the proposed impact and some possible indicators that the 
applicant could use to measure their research outcomes 
o Information on the applicant’s knowledge mobilization plans, including where 
possible, non-traditional ways to disseminate knowledge and information. 
o Information on the extent to which this project builds upon or is different from 
existing projects. 
o Information on how fellowship funding will enable the exploration of a new area of 
research / new project. 
 
• Candidate’s statement 1,000 words

Dorothy Killam Fellowship Award 
AWARD DETAILS AND APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS 
Modified: April 28, 2025 (sgbrown)  
Page 5 of 8 
 
o Information on how the researcher or research aligns with one or more of the Killam 
attributes: 
▪ Inclusive collaborator - whose work exemplifies inclusion and 
understanding of people, cultures and needs with participation among all 
economic, social and cultural backgrounds 
▪ Barrier breaker - whose original, transformational, future-focused 
generation of knowledge and technology stands to change the way we live 
▪ Research leader - who activates thoughtful cooperation among scholars, 
disciplines and institutions to create a multiplier effect within the research 
ecosystem 
o Information on how the researcher would benefit from the release time at this 
moment in their career. 
o Information on the applicant’s knowledge mobilization plans, including where 
possible, non-traditional ways to disseminate knowledge and information. Some 
examples of non-traditional dissemination channels may include: 
▪ videos, blogs, podcasts, performances 
▪ number of policies influenced or informed, or number of patents or IP 
secured 
▪ article preprints, datasets made available, software, and/or protocols 
developed 
▪ well-trained researchers, improved societal outcomes and/or 
demonstrated policy changes 
▪ community engagement initiatives, media production, or educational 
mentorship programs 
▪ plans for early engagement with research communities and/or to work with 
diverse lab teams 
▪ personal commitment to training or plans for participation in research 
initiatives with underrepresented communities 
▪ plans for inclusive graduate student supervision 
 
• Community research supplement (optional, up to 500 words in English or 750 words in 
French) 
o Community-based research involves active participation of stakeholders whose 
lives are affected by the research in all phases of project for the purpose of 
producing useful results that lead to positive changes. 
o A community-based research supplement is recommended in instances where 
community research is being carried out but may not be applicable to all research 
projects.  
o Applicants whose proposals include community research are encouraged to 
provide the following supplemental information: 
▪ Description of existing relationships with a community or communities. 
▪ Information on any permissions conferred to carry out the research that 
involves a community or communities either directly or indirectly. 
▪ Description of the role of community members in shaping the research 
question(s) as well as the role community members play in contributing to, 
sharing, or applying research findings.

Dorothy Killam Fellowship Award 
AWARD DETAILS AND APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS 
Modified: April 28, 2025 (sgbrown)  
Page 6 of 8 
 
▪ Description of how the proposed research contributes to, or is expected to 
contribute to, positive outcomes, benefits to the community, or change in 
policy or practice following research completion. 
 
• Curriculum vitae 30 pages in English or 36 pages in French 
o A full CV, including information on all publications, presentations, and grants and 
other fellowships received, awards and/or general recognition. 
 
• Two letters of support - 1,000 words in English or 1,200 words in French 
o Reference letters from up to 2 individuals are required. 
o Please ensure that each letter is unique, and that at least one letter speaks to the 
importance, the impact, and the quality of the proposed research; and the other 
focuses on the quality and impact of the researcher themselves, and their 
alignment with the Killam Attributes. 
▪ Please request that the letter clearly specify the nature of the letter 
writer’s relationship with the applicant.  
o To reduce the potential for unconscious bias in the evaluation process:  
▪ Please refer to applicants consistently by their surname(s) and 
use gender-neutral pronouns.  
▪ Please remove institutional letterhead.  
o For applicants who have included a community research supplement in their 
submission, it is encouraged that one of your letters of support articulate the 
importance of the proposed research to the particular community. This may be in 
the form of a letter of support from a leader or member of the community. 
 
• Proof of employment - eligibility attestation 
o Applications may come directly from individual researchers or from institutions on 
behalf of the applicant. In both cases, proof of eligibility via an attestation must be 
provided to demonstrate that the applicant meets the eligibility requirement of 
institutional employment for up to 2 years from the start of the fellowship. 
o Applicants must attest that they meet the eligibility requirement of institutional 
employment for up to 2 years from the start of the fellowship. This may be provided 
directly by the institution or submitted by the applicant. 
 
NOTE: The National Killam Program uses a two-stage selection process including external 
expert peer reviewers and a multi-disciplinary selection committee. Please ensure that all 
materials employ plain-language, using clear and simple terms, and are written in a way that a 
non-specialized audience would understand. 
 
 
Section 9.0: Evaluation criteria 
 
• Following Peer Review, the Selection Committee evaluates applications on their merit, 
compared with each other and in a national context and may use publicly available sources 
of information. 
• The fellowships will be offered to candidates considered outstanding by the Committee.

Dorothy Killam Fellowship Award 
AWARD DETAILS AND APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS 
Modified: April 28, 2025 (sgbrown)  
Page 7 of 8 
 
• Where assessment results are not meaningfully different, the Committee will consider 
cohort factors that will contribute to a diverse and representative group. 
• Anonymous and discretionary feedback from the National Killam Program Office to 
applicants may be shared once the annual winners have been announced. 
The following points will figure prominently in the review and selection of the candidates 
considered for the Dorothy Killam Fellowships: 
 
CRITERIA DESCRIPTION WEIGHT 
Significance The application clearly states the significance and the 
importance of the proposed research toward building 
Canada’s future through advanced study as well as 
strong evidence of one or more of the Killam attributes. 
• Inclusive collaborator - whose work exemplifies 
inclusion and understanding of people, cultures 
and needs with participation among all 
economic, social and cultural backgrounds. 
• Barrier breaker - whose original, 
transformational, future-focused generation of 
knowledge and technology stands to change the 
way we live. 
• Research leader - who activates thoughtful 
cooperation among scholars, disciplines and 
institutions to create a multiplier effect within 
the research ecosystem. 
25% 
Advancement 
of knowledge 
Details on the proposed research, how it advances 
knowledge in the field and the applicant’s knowledge 
mobilization strategy. Evidence of the candidate’s 
outstanding commitment, creativity and efforts to share 
research knowledge beyond the academic community. 
25% 
Methods Sound research methods including a description of the 
approach, hypothesis and statement of problem and a 
commitment to ethical research conduct including 
honest and thoughtful inquiry, rigorous analysis, 
commitment to safety and research ethics, to the 
dissemination of research results, and adherence to 
professional standards. 
25% 
Relevance  
Relevance of the research, immediate as well as long 
term outcomes, and clear and compelling evidence of 
how the research stands to have a positive impact on 
Canada. 
 
25% 
 
 
Section 10.0: Eligibility criteria

Dorothy Killam Fellowship Award 
AWARD DETAILS AND APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS 
Modified: April 28, 2025 (sgbrown)  
Page 8 of 8 
 
• A Dorothy Killam Fellow is relieved of teaching and administrative duties for the period of 
the fellowship.  
• The funds are intended to assist the institution to cover the costs of replacement of the 
applicant while still paying regular salary and benefits during the 2-year fellowship period.  
• Recipients must obtain support for research and laboratory costs from other sources.  
• All fellowship dispersals are administered to the existing research institution of the 
applicant.  
• Dorothy Killam Fellows may be recognized at the annual National Killam Celebration of 
Excellence event. 
  
EDI considerations 
• Equity, diversity and inclusion are fundamental to achieving research excellence.  
• The National Killam Program encourages applications from candidates whose research has 
consequence and impact, setting precedents and yielding transformative results that serve 
to build Canada’s future through advanced study.  
• To be eligible, applicants: 
o demonstrate commitment to building Canada’s future and alignment with Killam 
attributes; 
o are mid-career researchers who usually completed their PhD no more than 15 years 
prior, though special circumstances may result in applicants being more or less 
than 15 years post-PhD; 
o must be employed by a university or other research institute for the duration of the 
fellowship (2 years) and will submit a proof of employment; 
o may not have already been awarded a fellowship from the Killam Program of the 
Canada Council for the Arts. Please note that National Killam Program Office 
employees, members of the National Killam Program Advisory Board, or the 
Selection Committee may not apply. 
o consent to disclose any information that may constitute a significant departure 
from generally-recognized standards of public behaviour and which is seen to 
undermine the public reputation of the National Killam Program. 
• Note that meeting the eligibility criteria does not guarantee receipt of Fellowship. The 
National Killam Program Office retains the right to interpret the contents of these 
application guidelines and of the online instructions and form. 
• Applications may be submitted by individuals or by institutions on behalf of the applicant. 
In both cases, proof of employment for the full 2 years during the length of the fellowship 
must be provided to meet eligibility requirements. 
 
 
Privacy 
• The National Killam Program Office and the Selection Committee will not release any 
information in the application that is specified as confidential, including names or any self-
identifying information. 
• Anonymous demographic information may be aggregated and used by the National Killam 
Program Office to measure and report on performance. 
• The Privacy Act gives individuals the right to access and request correction of personal 
information about themselves.