PROTECTED B when completed 
 
Page 1/20 
 
 
CLEAN ENERGY IN INDIGENOUS, RURAL AND REMOTE COMMUNITIES 
   
FUNDING APPLICATION 
 
Instructions 
 
1. This application is for federal funding for activities and projects related to reducing diesel 
reliance for heat and power, including capacity building, renewable energy and energy 
efficiency. Your application will be shared with Natural Resources Canada (NRCan), Crown-
Indigenous and Northern Affairs Canada (CIRNAC), Indigenous Services Canada (ISC), 
Environment and Climate Change Canada (ECCC) and Infrastructure and Communities 
Canada (INFC).  
2. Program staff are available to assist you in the application development and submission 
process. If you have any questions or require assistance, please contact the program at 
remoteenergy-energieadistance@nrcan-rncan.gc.ca or you can follow up with your existing 
point of contact within the program. 
3. If you have any project documentation that addresses any or all of the Application Form 
question(s), you may attach and reference these documents instead of filling out these 
sections. This can include a recently submitted application form or proposal to another 
funding program, feasibility studies, engagement plans, project governance descriptions, 
work scope descriptions, project schedules, project budgets, etc.  
4. The level of detail in the application should be proportional to the size and complexity of 
the project. Please indicate if a section does not apply to your project or if you do not have 
a response to a section. For example, indicate “not applicable” or “This is a project idea and 
has not been developed further”. There will be opportunities to further provide information 
throughout the development and assessment process. 
5. If any part of this Application contains confidential or proprietary information, please write 
it in red font.

PROTECTED B when completed 
 
Page 2/20 
 
CLEAN ENERGY IN INDIGENOUS, RURAL AND REMOTE COMMUNITIES 
 
FUNDING APPLICATION 
 
1. Applicant Information 
Applicant 
Organization Energy And More Consulting 
Organization Type Indigenous for-profit organization  
Mailing Address 6 Aishihik Road, Whitehorse, YT, Y1A 3R7 
Business Number 
(if applicable) N/A 
Primary Contact 
 
Grant Sullivan President 
Grant_sullivan@hotmail.com 867-678-5732 
Secondary Contact 
 
 Phone 
  
Is this the first time your organization has applied for federal 
clean energy funding? 
☒ Yes     ☐ No     ☐ Unsure 
If no, please specify 
program(s)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Project Information 
Project Title Remote Community Energy & Building Infrastructure Planning AI Model 
Project 
Location 
Whitehorse, Yukon 
 
Project 
Timeline (2025-04-01) to (2027-03-31)

PROTECTED B when completed 
 
Page 3/20 
 
Total Project 
Cost $600,000 Total Funding 
Requested $600,000 
Project Province/Territory (select all that apply) 
☐BC   ☐AB   ☐SK   ☐MB   ☐ON   ☐QC   ☐NB   ☐NS   ☐PEI   ☐NL   ☒NT   ☒YT   ☒NU 
Please specify region, sub-region and/or nation territory  ___ 
Project Description 
Provide a full description of the project and key activities. Indicate the work that has been 
completed, is currently underway, and planned activities to advance the project. Additionally, 
include the following information based on type of project: 
 
If this is a capacity-building project, please identify how it will help reduce diesel or fossil fuel 
reliance for power and/or heat and advance community-led clean energy opportunities. 
 
If this is a clean energy project, please identify (if known): 
• the technology being proposed (e.g. wind, solar, hydro, biomass, energy storage, 
energy efficiency, combinations, etc.); 
• how it will help improve energy usage within the community and reduce reliance on 
fossil fuels for heat and power; 
• the proposed system size including anticipated heat load and/or electricity demand; 
• whether the project has revenue generating potential; 
• the proposed plan for managing operation and maintenance costs and maintaining 
the renewable energy asset throughout its life cycle; and, 
• whether this is a novel application of the technology, and whether it has been done 
elsewhere in a similar climate or remote site. 
 
If this is a research and development project, please identify (if applicable): 
• the generation technology being studied (e.g. small wind, marine, municipal waste 
conversion, combinations, etc.) and its deployment readiness for Canadian remote 
communities (e.g. theoretical, prototype, experimental, demonstration, etc.) 
• scope of the study (e.g. community or industrial scale, estimating heating or 
electricity loads, energy storage, microgrid reliability, development of a test facility, 
etc.) 
• non-technology project considerations (e.g. health or climate implications from 
diesel, barriers to uptake of renewables, use of traditional knowledge, cultural 
development models, etc.)

PROTECTED B when completed 
 
Page 4/20 
 
 
Project Overview 
The Remote Community Energy and Building Infrastructure Planning AI Model Project (the “Project”) seeks to 
address the challenges faced by remote communities in Canada transitioning to net -zero by leveraging AI  to 
create a self-sustaining tool for energy and infrastructure planning while advancing community-led clean energy 
initiatives. Northern remote communities across Canada are struggling to transition to a net -zero way of life 
while southern regions develop comprehensive strategies for achieving this goal. Remote communities are not 
only facing the challenges of transitioning to a net -zero future, but also the direct impacts of climate change 
such as the impacts of extreme weather on energy access. Limited capacity often requires these communities 
to rely on external contractors to  develop energy of infrastructure plans, which can be expensive and time 
consuming given the communities’ remoteness.  
 
The development of a n AI-powered application to help remote communities create their own energy and 
infrastructure plans would reduce their reliance on outside experts and provide solutions specifically tailored to 
each community that uses the application. The Project seeks to not only address the immediate energy planning 
needs of remote communities, but also aims to create a scalable, replicable model that could be adapted and 
deployed across other remote communities in Canada, potentially amplifying the impact of the tool nationwide. 
 
 
Project Scope and Components 
Task 1: Planning and Research 
Task 1 of the Project will lay the groundwork by conducting in -depth research and strategic planning. This will 
involve an evaluation of existing AI programs to determine how they may be adapted to develop community 
energy plans at the remote Canadian community level. Feasibility studies and cost -benefit analyses will be 
conducted to review the development of a standalone AI application.  Task 1 will also involve the development 
of an EOI to gain an understanding of costs related to AI application development.  
 
The development of Community Energy Profiles (CEP) for select communities will take place, to act as inputs 
for the AI application. A demonstration version of the application will also be developed, to assist in engagement 
and showcase the technology.  Community consultations and stakeholder will be integral during this phase to 
ensure the AI application is aligned with the community’s values, priorities, and unique needs. 
 
Task 2: Development and Testing 
Task 2 of the Project will center on the technical development of the full-scale AI application and related testing. 
During Task 2 , AI developers, data scientists, and energy consultants will be engaged to assist in the 
development of the application and populate it with the necessary data and resources.  During Task 2 , a 
comprehensive library consisting of various energy, housing, and community planning resources will be built for 
the AI application to draw from. These documents may include but are not limited to: 
• The Arctic Energy Toolkit; 
• The Arctic Remote Energy Networks Academy Program; 
• Northern community energy plans; 
• Federal funding strategies, reporting, and policies; 
• Ministerial mandate letters; 
• Territorial energy strategies; 
• Electricity and energy strategies; 
• General Rate Applications, Power Purchase Agreements; and 
• Relevant reports from think tanks and universities; 
 
Once developed, the full-scale application will undergo initial pilot testing in select communities to assess its 
adaptability to various environments, climates, and community sizes . Once the pilot is complete, feedback will 
be incorporated into the application to ensure it is ready for real-world use. 
 
Phase 3: Launch and Community Engagement 
The final phase of the Project will involve its deployment of the application in target communities, alongside

PROTECTED B when completed 
 
Page 5/20 
 
ongoing support to ensure its successful adoption.  The launch will be accompanied by various training and 
supporting materials to help guide the communities in using the tool effectively. In addition to training materials, 
the launch will include the establishment of local energy champions who can assist in continued education and 
serve as in -community facilitators to ensure ongoing success. Post -launch, a system for ongoing support, 
updates, and troubleshooting will be established to ensure the application  remains relevant and functional as 
communities’ needs evolve. 
 
 
Project Benefits  
Provide a description of the project overall result(s) and expected outcome(s). Include details like:   
 
How the project is addressing community, national and/or regional electricity/renewable energy 
challenges. 
• You may wish to include how the project responds to community needs and/or fits into a 
community vision/plan. 
• Examples of challenges: a lack of tools or training for community action, frequent blackouts, 
end of equipment life, high costs of heat and power, community accessibility.

PROTECTED B when completed 
 
Page 6/20 
 
Describe the overall benefits and expected results of the project, including who will benefit and 
how. Please include the expected environmental, social and economic benefits of the project. 
What would be considered a successful project by the community? 
• Examples: estimated reduction of diesel fuel (litres/year), estimated reduction in greenhouse 
gas emission (tonnes CO2/year), health benefits (e.g. improved air quality), number and 
types of jobs created and improved human resource capacity, community energy 
independence and resiliency, improved reliability of electricity and heat, economic/ financial 
benefits (e.g., operating savings, lower energy costs).  
• Describe how the project will contribute to increased capacity within the community and/or 
region, such as increased institutional capacity and community involvement, improved 
energy literacy, knowledge and skills development, supporting energy champions, etc. 
 
If relevant, please describe any past or proposed work related to the project that advances 
equity, diversity and inclusion in electricity/renewable energy in Canada. 
 
The Project will address critical challenges in remote Canadian communities as they strive toward achieving 
energy sovereignty and sustainability. These communities often lack the tools and resources to effectively 
transition to clean energy and face issues such as high energy costs, outdated infrastructure, and limited local 
expertise. The Project seeks to empower these communities using the AI Application that supports energy and 
infrastructure planning, while fostering a self-sustaining and community-led approach to the energy transition. 
 
The Project responds to several challenges faced by remote communities, including: 
• Energy sovereignty: by enabling communities to develop their own energy plans, the Project fosters 
energy independence by reducing reliance on external contractors. 
• Energy choice: the Application will give communities greater control over the types of energy sources 
they wish to explore and incorporate in their own unique systems. 
• Real-time updates: the Application will function as a dynamic, evolving tool that is reflective of real -
time inputs such as changing energy needs, local resources, local priorities, and updated policies. 
• Time and cost savings: by reducing the reliance on external contractors, the community will save on 
both time and money that would otherwise be spent on lengthy and expensive external consultation 
processes. 
 
The Project is expected to result in several benefits, including: 
• Environmental benefits: the adoption of energy -efficient systems and renewable energy solutions is 
expected to reduce the reliance on diesel and other fossil fuels in northern remote communities. 
• Economic benefits: the Project expects to reduce energy costs for remote communities, which face 
high costs due to various transportation and infrastructure challenges. The Project will improve human 
resource capacity by developing new skills in energy management, AI tools, and infrastructure planning. 
Long-term, communities are expected to see savings on energy expenditures. 
• Social benefits: the Project will strengthen community ownership and experience with energy transition 
initiatives. It will give communities the tools and agency to direct their own energy futures, fostering a 
sense of empowerment and resilience. Increased energy literac y and skills development will allow for 
community members to become energy champions, improving local, territorial, and national leadership.  
Project Governance and Team 
Provide a summary of the ownership and governance structure of the project. If applicable, include 
details of Indigenous ownership/partnership of the project and their role in decision-making 
processes.  
 
Energy and More Consulting,  is a northern, wholly Indigenous owned and operated company established under

PROTECTED B when completed 
 
Page 7/20 
 
the laws of Canada.  
 
Grant Sullivan, President of Energy and More Consulting, has expertise and experience in project management, 
finance, and community liaison. He has a Bachelor of Management Degree (Finance) and has lived in the 
Beaufort Delta for the majority of his life. He has been active in several Gwich’in organizations as a Gwich’in 
beneficiary where he gained extensive experience and knowledge of the business community, arctic logistics, 
and Indigenous governments in the Beaufort Delta region.  Grant was a 20/20 Catalyst (2016) and is currently 
participating as an Energy Champion in the Indigenous Off-grid Diesel Initiative (IODI).  
 
Grant has served as the overall Project Lead/Coordinator for the development and operation of numerous clean 
energy alternatives and energy efficiency projects across the Beaufort Delta region, as well as other areas in 
Canada. Grant’s experience has involved work on the following projects: 
• Inuvik Battery Energy Storage System (BESS) and Birch Wind Project (2022 to Present). 
• Inuvik 1 MW Solar Farm (2021 to Present); 
• Inuvik High Penetration Renewables Study (2020 to 2021); 
• Inuvik Biomass Boiler Installations (2020 to 2022); and 
• Biomass Supply Chain Optimization Study (2019); 
• Inuvik Satellite Station Facility Solar PV Installation (2018 to 2021); 
• Inuvik Commercial Solar PV Installation at Mackenzie Hotel (April 2018 to 2020); 
• Inuvik Commercial Solar PV Installation at North Mart (April 2018 to November 2019); 
• Inuvik Multi-Residential Solar Net Metering Demonstration (January 2018 to 2020); 
• Inuvik High Point Wind Study [for GNWT] (2016 to 2018). 
 
Grant has extensive experience working on studies relating to the development and integration of renewable 
energy projects in both the Beaufort Delta region and in remote northern communities. Notable studies and 
related work include: 
• Diverging from Diesel for GCI (2016) 
• Fossil Fuel Thermal Power Generation Cost in Northern Communities for GCI (2017) 
• Arctic Remote Energy Networks Academy (co-lead) for Arctic Council (2016 to 2018) 
• Arctic Sustainable Energy Futures Toolkit for Arctic Council (2017 to 2019) 
• Beaufort Delta Community Energy Profiles (2017 to 2020) 
 
More information on Grant Sullivan is provided below. 
 
Energy and More Consulting is focused on studying clean energy alternatives and energy efficiency projects in 
the Beaufort Delta region of Northwest Territories (NWT) as well as in other areas of northern Canada. Energy 
and More Consulting  is focused on working with Indigenous and other northern stakeholders to create 
sustainable, environmentally responsible and meaningful economic opportunities across the north. 
 
Energy and More Consulting  will be responsible for management and coordination of the Project Team and 
providing oversite for research, engagement, and coordination activities.  Energy and More Consulting  will be 
supported by InterGroup Consultants (Project Management Support, Business Case Development) and the 
University of Waterloo (Technical support related to technical and engineering assessments). 
 
For further details regarding Energy and More Consulting  recent project experience see summary for Grant 
Sullivan, Indigenous Off-Diesel Initiative Champion, provided below. A firm profile and CV can be provided on 
request. 
 
Provide a summary of the project team. E.g. Who is leading the project? Who will be hired to 
complete the work (project manager, local project champion, project adviser, consulting engineer, 
contractors, technology providers, etc.)? 
 
Overall project work will be directed by Energy and More Consulting  (Grant Sullivan, Indigenous Off -Diesel

PROTECTED B when completed 
 
Page 8/20 
 
Initiative Champion).  Grant will be supported by InterGroup (project management support) and the Future Cities 
Institute at the University of Waterloo (technical/ engineering assessments). 
 
Key members of the project team have experience working together over a number of projects since 2018/19, 
including the Inuvik BESS/Birch Wind Project; planning for and installation of solar projects in Inuvik (three 
commercial developments and 29 residential developments); and completion of a wind feasibility design basis 
study for the High Point Wind Project.  
 
InterGroup 
InterGroup Consultants Ltd (InterGroup) specializes in multi-discipline team management dealing with resource 
planning and development, project licensing and rate regulation, with a focus on the following activities:   
• Coordinating and managing environmental assessment studies and providing expert technical services 
related to socio-economic impact assessment and public engagement, and also facilitating coordination 
across multiple technical discipline experts, as required. 
• Assisting clients with the planning and development of major resource projects, including providing 
project management and coordination, planning and economic feasibility studies, and negotiation and 
facilitation  
• Providing expert advice and support related to the development and review of rates for regulated 
utilities. This includes extensive and ongoing experience providing economic and financial and other 
advice to Crown utilities in Yukon (working with Yukon Ene rgy Corporation since 1987), Northwest 
Territories (working with Northwest Territories Power Corporation since 2000) and Nunavut (working 
with Qulliq Energy Corporation since 2009).  
InterGroup’s team has acquired extensive knowledge regarding fuel costs related to generating electricity and 
heating in northern communities, including communities connected to predominantly hydro-electric grid power, 
as well as isolated or off -grid communities that rely on diesel or natural gas generation. InterGroup has also 
provided ongoing senior advice, technical and project management support with Grant Sullivan’s assessments 
for the residential solar net metering development in Inuvik, NT; the devel opment of two commercial solar 
projects in Inuvik; the 60 kW ISSF site solar development near Inuvik; the 150 kW solar development  IPP in 
Aklavik; and the 1 MW solar development IPP in Inuvik. InterGroup also provided business case and project 
management support for the Inuvik High Point Wind Project Design Basis and Business Case study; the Inuvik 
High Penetration Renewables Study; and the Inuvik BESS/Birch Wind Project.  
 
InterGroup will provide Energy and More Consulting with support and strategic guidance in the following areas:  
• Project management support; 
• Support for negotiation of agreements; 
• Business case development/ review of project economics and strategic planning/ approach.  
 
Future Cities Institute, University of WaterlooThe University of Waterloo's Future Cities Institute (FCI) 
collaborates with a diverse range of partners, from large multinational corporations and municipalities to 
smaller Indigenous communities and hamlets, focusing on critical areas such as housing, mobility, 
sustainable infrastructure, and the integration of artificial intelligence within municipal and hamlet settings. 
Through operational, applied research, FCI leverages its expertise to address complex, real-world 
challenges defined by city or community representatives and other partners. Current projects, in 
collaboration with municipalities and community partners, showcase a commitment to impactful research 
and development, enhancing sustainable growth and resilience through practical, innovative solutions. This 
approach not only drives forward-thinking advancements but also ensures that researchers, students and 
partners work together to co-create solutions that are meaningful and effective within the unique context of 
each community. 
 
The FCI will support this project by integrating resources from a global network of interdisciplinary 
researchers, industry leaders, students, and community members focused on sustainable municipal 
development.  
 
More specifically FCI will provide access to UWaterloo’s advanced computing resources with AI/ML

PROTECTED B when completed 
 
Page 9/20 
 
capabilities, specialized software for AI and language model development, and powerful data analysis tools. 
Ranked as Canada’s #1 comprehensive research university (Research Information 2023), UWaterloo also 
brings expertise from Canada Excellence Research Chairs in Human-Centred Robotics, Machine 
Intelligence, Developmental Science, and Data Intelligence to advance project goals. 
 
In addition, the FCI will develop a team of world-class researchers, post-doctoral scholars, graduate 
students and undergraduate students to lead the technical and engineering components of this important 
project. Members of this team may include (but are not limited to) representatives from the following 
faculties and institutes across campus: 
 
• Waterloo Data and Artificial Intelligence Institute (Waterloo.AI): Waterloo.AI offers participants 
intensive, short courses (3-4 days) led by top instructors in AI, allowing project team members to 
deepen their technical expertise. These courses are tailored to bridge academic AI knowledge with 
practical applications, providing participants the skills to integrate new AI techniques directly into 
industry contexts. 
• UWaterloo Faculty of Engineering: As the largest engineering faculty in Canada, UWaterloo’s 
Faculty of Engineering supports the project by providing resources, expertise, and tools required for 
AI-driven urban solutions. The faculty fosters opportunities for students to engage with AI through 
applied design projects, educational workshops, and hackathons, directly contributing to innovative 
project outcomes. 
• UWaterloo Faculty of Mathematics: The Faculty of Mathematics, home to the largest Computer 
Science department in Canada, offers additional resources and support for complex computational 
projects. With advanced capabilities in data science and AI, the faculty is integral in applying 
rigorous data intelligence approaches to urban challenges. 
 
In tables below, describe key team members involved in the project (e.g., their experience, role and 
expertise they will bring). If applicable, describe any legal background and who will retain any 
intellectual property for the project. 
 
Provide sufficient detail for the program to assess whether the team has the necessary capability 
and capacity (e.g., management, technical, etc.) for the proposed work, but do not include resumés. 
 
Add/delete rows as needed. 
Team Member Organizatio
n Role Phone 
Number Email 
1 Grant 
Sullivan 
Energy and 
More 
Consulting 
Energy 
Corporation 
President, Indigenous Off-Diesel 
Initiative Champion (867)678-5732 grant_sullivan@h
otmail.com 
Grant Sullivan (President, Energy and More Consulting ) will be the Project Manager, and responsible for 
management and coordination of the Project Team and providing oversite for design, procurement, 
permitting, installation and commissioning activities, as well as ongoing maintenance and reporting 
activities. Key areas of responsibility include:  
• Main point of contact providing direction to Project Team Members & overall team coordination.   
• Lead discussions with relevant parties related to negotiation of agreements; determining contract 
approach/ framework; and contract/ agreement finalization.  
• Lead interactions with federal and other funding partners; including reporting as required.  
Mr. Sullivan has expertise and experience in project management, finance and community liaison. He has a 
Bachelor of Management Degree (Finance), and has lived in the Beaufort Delta region for the majority of his 
life. He has been active in several Gwich’in organizations as a Gwich’in beneficiary where he gained extensive 
experience and knowledge of the business community, arctic logistics and Indigenous governments in the 
Beaufort Delta region.

PROTECTED B when completed 
 
Page 10/20 
 
 
Mr. Sullivan has served as overall Project Lead/Coordinator for a number of renewal energy projects advanced 
by either Nihtat Corporation  or Nihtat Energy Ltd (NEL) since 2018 (see below for summary focused on Beaufort 
Delta projects).  Work on each of these projects was initially advanced by Nihtat Corporation and then 
undertaken by NEL starting in May 2019. Key relevant projects are noted below. 
 
• Inuvik High Point Wind Study [for GNWT] (2016 -2018): Feasibility study for the Government of 
Northwest Territories (August 2016 to April 2017). Feasibility work for GNWT towards development of 
a Business Case and Design Basis for the Inuvik Wind Project. Mr. Sullivan provided oversight for work 
related to the geotechnical survey in Inuvik, site preparation and installation of a met tower at the 
proposed project site, environmental baseline data acquisition and review, two GNWT Workshops and 
two community engagement sessions, followed by completion of the design basis and presentation of 
the business case. 
 
• Inuvik High Penetration Renewables Study (2020 -2021): Pre -feasibility assessment for potential 
addition to the Inuvik grid of up to 1-3 MW of wind generation; up to 1 MW of solar; and energy storage 
(the “Inuvik Grid High Penetration Renewable Pre-feasibility Study”).   
 
• Inuvik BESS/Birch Wind Project (2022 to Present). Feasibility assessment of an 8-11 MWh battery/ 
microgrid and the 4.2 MW Birch Wind Project, and related opportunity for a renewable hydrogen 
development project. 
 
• Commercial Solar Developments in Inuvik: Planning, design, procurement  and installation of 250 kW 
DC of ground mounted solar PV at the North Mart Store (2019); 144 kW DC of ground mounted solar 
PV at the Mackenzie Hotel (2020); 60 kV of ground mounted solar PV at the ISSF facility near Inuvik 
(2021); and 1 MW Solar Farm IPP (2021 to Present) for sale of electricity to Northwest Territories Power 
Corporation through a Power Purchase Agreement. 
 
• 150 kV Solar IPP in Aklavik: design, procurement and installation of up to 265 kW DC (restricted to 150 
kw AC) of solar PV capacity to the Aklavik community grid in 2020 -2021, for sale of electricity to 
Northwest Territories Power Corporation through a Power Purchase Agreement (completed in 
September 2020). The project has been constructed and is in the process of being commissioned 
(expected in service in 2024). 
 
Grant has extensive experience working on studies relating to the development and integration of renewable 
energy projects in both the Beaufort Delta region and in remote northern communities. Notable studies and 
related work include: 
• Diverging from Diesel for GCI, as Executive Director of GCI (2016) 
• Fossil Fuel Thermal Power Generation Cost in Northern Communities for GCI, as Executive Director of 
GCI (2017) 
• Arctic Remote Energy Networks Academy (co -lead) for Arctic Council, as Executive Director of GCI 
(2016 to 2018) 
• Arctic Sustainable Energy Futures Toolkit for Arctic Council, as Executive Director of GCI (2017 to 
2019) 
• Beaufort Delta Community Energy Profiles for NEL, as President of NEL (2017 to 2020) 
 
A firm profile and CV can be provided on request. 
 
2 Cam Osler 
InterGroup 
Consultants 
Ltd 
Project Management Support, 
Business Case Development 204-942-0654 Cam@intergroup
.ca  
Mr. Osler will provide senior project management support and lead business case development.  
He has over 50 years of experience in regulatory economics, including revenue requirement, cost of service, 
and rate design providing case management support during regulatory review processes and providing expert

PROTECTED B when completed 
 
Page 11/20 
 
testimony before regulatory tribunals. Other experience includes team leadership on multidisciplinary 
management teams, socio-economic and environmental assessment and related public consultation, strategic 
planning and assessment, and participation in neg otiation of compensation agreements for First Nations.  He 
has provided ongoing senior advice, technical and project management support regarding Mr. Sullivan’s  
assessments for the residential solar net metering development in Inuvik, NT; the development o f two 
commercial solar projects in Inuvik; the 60 kW ISSF site solar development near Inuvik; and the 150 kW solar 
development in Aklavik. He also provided business case and project management support for the Inuvik High 
Point Wind Project Design Basis and Business Case study; the Inuvik High Penetration Renewables Study; and 
the Inuvik BESS/Birch Wind Project. 
 
3 Mona Pollitt-
Smith 
InterGroup 
Consultants 
Ltd 
Project Management Support, 
Business Case Development 204-942-0654 mona@intergrou
p.ca  
Ms. Pollitt-Smith will provide project management support and support business case development.  
Mona has over fifteen years of experience with InterGroup working on regulatory, resource planning and 
development projects, and environmental assessment and licencing reviews; and has experience coordinating 
and leading preparation of a variety of complex regulatory filings and providing support throughout the 
regulatory review process, as well as experience supporting negotiation of power purchase agreements and 
project agreements with First Nations. She has provided ongoing advice, technical and project management 
support regarding Mr. Sullivan’s assessments for the residential solar net metering development in Inuvik, NT; 
the development of two commercial solar projects in Inuvik; the 60 kW ISSF site solar development near 
Inuvik; and the 150 kW solar development in Aklavik; as well as project management support for the Inuvik 
High Point Wind Project Design Basis and Business Case study; the Inuvik High Penetration Renewables 
Study; and the Inuvik BESS/ Birch Wind Project. 
 
4 Eryn Stewart  
Future 
Cities 
Institute, 
University 
of Waterloo 
Technical Lead (905) 531-
4114 
eryn.stewart@uw
aterloo.ca 
 
Eryn Stewart serves as the Managing Director of the Future Cities Institute (FCI) at the University of Waterloo 
where she provides overall strategic leadership, management and administration for all FCI programs and 
services across the University of Waterloo. She has been instrumental in the development of FCI’s growing 
member network which includes academic collaborators from across UWaterloo’s six faculties.  
 
Before joining the FCI, Eryn was the co-founder and Managing Director of Indigenous Clean Energy (ICE), a 
community-driven enterprise advancing Indigenous inclusion in Canada’s clean energy future. At ICE, she 
played a transformative role in fostering partnerships and empowering Indigenous communities to lead 
sustainable energy projects across the country. In 2017, Eryn was one of twenty emerging leaders selected by 
the Arctic Council to participate in the Arctic Remote Energy Network Academy – a program to promote 
information sharing across the Arctic on the integration of renewable energy in remote communities. 
Recognized as a Top 30 Under 30 Sustainability Leader and a recipient of the University of Waterloo Young 
Alumni Inspiration Award, Eryn brings a proven track record of driving impactful change to her leadership at 
FCI, along with expertise in community energy planning, community engagement, and energy efficiency in 
northern and remote communities. 
 
5

PROTECTED B when completed 
 
Page 12/20 
 
 
 
 
 
3. Project Engagement 
Indigenous and Community Engagement 
Describe which communities will participate in the project, the level of community involvement 
both during the project and beyond, the ongoing relationship between you as the applicant 
organization with the communities, and completed and/or planned community engagement 
efforts. Indicate the level of support from the community(ies) and alignment with community plans 
and values. Include any confirmed written support, funding, leadership, etc. 
 
What opportunities will be made to allow the views of under-represented groups (e.g. women, 
gender-diverse people, youth, Elders, 2SLGBTQ+, people with disabilities, etc) to be shared and 
incorporated into the project? 
 
The proposed project will actively engage with key Indigenous communities and local 
governments, including the City of Iqaluit, the Council of the Haida Nation, and the Town of Inuvik. 
These communities will play a vital role in shaping the project’s development by providing input, 
sharing local knowledge, and ensuring that outcomes align with community priorities. Engagement 
efforts will focus on reviewing the AI model as it progresses, incorporating relevant grid data, and 
ensuring the integration of existing energy plans with community-specific needs. The collaborative 
review process will also serve as a foundation for planning implementation activities tailored to 
each community’s unique energy landscape. 
Commitment to Meaningful and Ongoing Engagement 
Energy and More Consulting prioritizes fostering strong, respectful, and mutually beneficial 
relationships with Indigenous governments, community organizations, and residents. Engagement 
will go beyond information-sharing by ensuring communities have an active voice in decision-
making. Our approach includes: 
• Early and Continuous Engagement: Community input will be sought at key stages of the 
project to ensure alignment with local priorities, traditional knowledge, and long-term 
sustainability goals. 
• Transparent Communication: Regular updates, workshops, and community meetings will 
provide opportunities for meaningful dialogue and collaboration. 
• Local Capacity Building: Training initiatives, workshops, and knowledge-sharing sessions 
will be developed to enhance community energy literacy and build local expertise in clean 
energy solutions. 
• Economic Opportunities: The project will prioritize Indigenous-led businesses and 
contractors to maximize local employment and economic benefits. 
Community Support and Alignment with Local Plans 
The project aligns with local energy strategies, sustainability goals, and community visions for 
energy independence. Support letters from Indigenous governments, local leadership, and

PROTECTED B when completed 
 
Page 13/20 
 
relevant stakeholders will be sought to demonstrate community buy-in. Engagement efforts will 
also leverage existing partnerships and explore new collaborations to strengthen community 
participation. 
 
 
 
Anticipated Partners and Supporters 
Please list the names of any relevant partner organizations or individuals and indicate their role in 
the project. This would include potential funders, governments, utilities, etc.  
 
For projects involving the demonstration or deployment of a clean energy technology, describe the 
partnerships with Provincial/Territorial Government and Utility, who has been engaged and their 
level of support.  
 
Example: are there memorandums of understanding (MOUs), joint ventures (JVs) or power/energy 
purchase agreements under development; is the project outlined in a community energy plan; are 
environmental assessments/permits underway; if no engagement has occurred is there an 
engagement plan in place? 
 
 
 
Partner/Supporter Description of Role 
City of Iqaluit Attached letter of support 
Haida Nation Attached letter of support 
Town of Inuvik Attached letter of support 
  
4. Project Workplan 
Workplan Details 
Please attach any detailed project plan documents (e.g. project timeline, project budget). You may 
reference these documents instead of filling out this section. 
 
Using the table below, describe how the project will be carried out including; a list of project tasks; 
a high-level description for each; who is expected to complete them; what are the anticipated 
outputs or results (e.g. milestones); what is the timeline for each task; and the estimated cost.  
 
If applicable, please include details on the required permits, environmental assessments and/or 
regulatory approvals for construction and operation of the project.  
 
Add/delete rows as needed.

PROTECTED B when completed 
 
Page 14/20 
 
The Workplan below reflects the three identified tasks with each Task’s related deliverables and timeline; 
within each task, responsibilities and estimated costs are described separately for Energy and More 
Consulting, InterGroup and University of Waterloo. 
 
Project Task Description 
Team 
Member or 
Organization 
Responsible 
Output/result 
Start and 
Completion 
Date 
Estimated 
Cost ($) 
Task 1: 
Planning and 
Research 
  
Energy and 
More 
Consulting 
    $50,000 
Review of existing 
AI applications 
Research and 
evaluate available AI 
solutions that could 
be tailored to energy 
and infrastructure 
planning. 
Energy and 
More Consulting     $10,000 
Review Intellectual 
property governance 
issues 
Review University 
of Waterloo 
Intellectual property 
guidelines 
Energy and 
More Consulting     $20,000 
Develop 
Community Energy 
Plans and Related 
Community 
engagement 
Development of 
Community Energy 
Plans and initial 
community 
engagement to 
gather inputs into 
application 
Energy and 
More Consulting     $20,000 
            
            
Task 2: 
Development and 
Testing 
        $340,000 
Contract services 
for application 
Engagement of AI 
developers, data 
scientists, and energy 
consultants to help 
develop the 
application. 
University of 
Waterloo     $190,000 
Build library and 
populate application 
Compilation of 
energy planning 
resources, strategies, 
and policy guidelines 
and integration into 
the application. 
University of 
Waterloo     $50,000 
Testing & 
revisions 
Conduct pilot 
testing in select 
communities and 
incorporation of 
feedback into 
application. 
University of 
Waterloo     $100,000 
            
Task 3: Launch 
and Community 
Engagement 
        $210,000

PROTECTED B when completed 
 
Page 15/20 
 
Launch application  
Deployment of AI 
application in 
communities, 
accompanied by 
training and support 
materials. 
Energy and 
More Consulting     $30,000 
Community 
engagement 
Engagement 
associated with 
various communities 
to develop 
communities’ 
relationships with the 
application and 
showcase how it can 
be used. 
Energy and 
More Consulting     $60,000 
Project 
Management & 
Reporting 
Associated project 
management (salary 
dollars for Grant 
Sullivan over 2 years) 
and reporting. 
Energy and 
More Consulting 
and InterGroup 
    $120,000 
 
             
Total All Tasks         $600,000  
 
 
5. Project Risks and Mitigation   
Using the table below, please describe any risks associated with the project (e.g., financial, scope, 
timeline, technical, consultation, market, etc.) and include the estimated likelihood (high, medium, 
low) and impact of the risk, as well as the mitigation measure that will be taken. 
Description of Risk Likelihood and Project Impact Mitigation Measure 
Technical Feasibility of AI 
Model: The AI model may 
face challenges in 
integrating diverse energy 
and infrastructure data 
sources across different 
remote communities, 
leading to limitations in its 
effectiveness. 
Medium Likelihood, High 
Impact: AI-based energy 
planning tools require 
reliable data inputs, and 
variations in data 
availability and quality 
across different 
communities may impact 
performance. 
A phased development approach will 
be used, starting with pilot testing in 
select communities. Continuous 
refinement through feedback loops 
will ensure the model adapts to 
different data inputs and improves 
its predictive accuracy. 
Collaborations with the university 
and AI experts will enhance model 
robustness. 
Community Adoption and 
Engagement: Communities 
may be hesitant to adopt the 
Medium Likelihood, High 
Impact: Limited digital 
literacy and unfamiliarity 
The project will include extensive 
community consultations, user-
friendly training materials, and

PROTECTED B when completed 
 
Page 16/20 
 
AI-based planning model due 
to concerns about digital 
literacy, local energy priorities, 
and skepticism about AI-
driven decision-making. 
with AI tools may slow 
adoption and reduce 
engagement from 
Indigenous and remote 
communities. 
dedicated capacity-building 
initiatives. Local energy champions 
will be identified to provide in-
community support and promote 
adoption. Training workshops will 
be held to ensure ease of use. 
Data Security and Privacy 
Concerns: The AI model 
requires sensitive 
community energy data, 
raising concerns about 
data privacy, security, 
and ownership. 
Low Likelihood, High Impact: 
If data governance is not 
properly managed, 
communities may be 
reluctant to share critical 
energy information, reducing 
the model’s effectiveness. 
Data protection policies and 
governance frameworks will be 
implemented, ensuring communities 
retain ownership and control over 
their data. Secure cloud storage, 
encryption protocols, and 
compliance with federal privacy 
regulations will be prioritized. 
Project Funding and Long-
Term Sustainability: Securing 
full funding and ensuring 
long-term operational 
sustainability of the AI model 
beyond the project’s initial 
implementation phase. 
Medium Likelihood, 
Medium Impact: Without 
sustained funding, future 
updates, maintenance, 
and expansion of the AI 
model to additional 
communities may be at 
risk. 
The project team will actively 
pursue diverse funding sources, 
including private sector 
partnerships, government grants, 
and Indigenous-led investment 
opportunities. A revenue model will 
be explored for long-term 
sustainability, including potential 
licensing to other communities. 
 
Description of Risk Likelihood and project impact Mitigation measure 
Describe the risk to the 
successful execution of 
the project 
Describe the estimated 
likelihood of the risk occurring 
and the impact to the project 
should it occur 
Describe the mitigation measure 
taken and estimate the residual risk 
to project (low, medium, or high)

PROTECTED B when completed 
 
Page 17/20 
 
 
 
Residual Risk Level 
Low  The residual risk has little potential for impact on project success. The Applicant is 
confident the mitigation measures in place effectively manage the risk.  
Medium The residual risk has some potential for impact on the project. With mitigation 
measures in place, the potential impact is not critical to project success or is very 
unlikely to occur.  
High The residual risk has significant potential to impact project success with outlined 
mitigation measures in place. 
 
 
 
 
6. Additional Information (optional) 
☒  Yes         ☐  No       Supporting documents have been attached to this Application. 
 
List file names of attached documents, for example, permits, land access approvals, environmental 
assessments, support letters, studies, etc.  
 
• Attachment 1 – Relevant Inuvik Experience Summary

PROTECTED B when completed 
 
Page 18/20 
 
 
7. Project Financials: 
 
Please provide sources of funding of the proposed project. Leave blank any sections that do not apply to you. Insert additional rows as needed. Organize by 
fiscal years (i.e. 2022-23 is April 1, 2022 to March 31, 2023). Please note there will be an additional Budget Template to complete at a later stage to indicate 
cost categories of the proposed project.  
 2022-2023 2023-2024 2024-2025 2025-2026 2026-2027 Total 
Contributions       
Program funding sought: 
   500,000 100,000  600,000 
Other Government of 
Canada Funding: 
• Impact Canada – 
Indigenous Off-Diesel 
Initiative 
Please indicate the status of funding 
(applied, pending, confirmed).  
      
Other Provincial, Municipal, 
Territorial or Indigenous 
government funding: 
      
Applicant Organization  
       
Funding from other sources:  
• Please identify source 
 
      
In-Kind: 
• List organization(s) 
 
      
Total contributions per year:   500,000 100,000  600,000

PROTECTED B when completed 
 
Page 19/20 
 
8. Applicant Attestation 
By submitting this project application, the Applicant:  
 
1. Attests that they have read and agree to the terms and conditions in the Applicant Guide. 
2. Attests that it is legally registered or incorporated in Canada (does not apply to governments). 
3. Attests that the information provided is true and accurate to the best of their knowledge. 
4. Understands that any costs incurred for the submission of the Application Form are at the 
Applicant’s own risk. 
5. Understands that CIRNAC and NRCan reserve the right to alter the currently envisaged process, 
and deadlines, or to cancel the entire application process at its sole discretion.   
6. Understands that project funding decisions will only be made following receipt, review, and 
selection of projects and the successful completion of due diligence. 
7. Understands and acknowledges that no liability, commitment or obligation exists on the part of 
CIRNAC and NRCan to make a financial contribution to the project until a written funding 
agreement is signed by both parties. 
8. Attests that it is the owner of all information - proprietary, confidential or otherwise - provided 
as part of the proposal submission, or, if the information belongs to another party, that it has 
obtained written consent to disclose the information to CIRNAC and NRCan. 
9. Understands that federal reviewers are bound by the requirements of the Access to Information 
Act and the Privacy Act regarding the treatment of confidential information.   
 
By checking below, the Applicant agrees that the Government of Canada may share this application and 
any other information provided as supplemental material with other potential funding entities in an 
effort to better support projects. Please indicate which of the following you consent to having your 
proposal shared with: 
a) Other Government of Canada Departments or 
Agencies;       ☒ Yes  ☐ No 
b) Provincial, Territorial and Municipal 
Governments;                                            ☒ Yes  ☐ No 
d) Local and/or Regional Utility; and                                                                                     ☒ Yes  ☐ No 
e) Not-for-profit sector or foundations (e.g., 
Federation of Canadian Municipalities) ☒ Yes  ☐ No 
 
 
9. Conflict of Interest Attestation 
Definition: A person is in a conflict of interest when they exercise an official power, duty or function that 
provides an opportunity to further their private interests or those of their relatives or friends or to 
improperly influence another person’s private interests. 
 
The following questions are to be used as guidelines to help you assess if a real, potential or perceived 
conflict of interest exists. If “Yes” for any of the below, the Program will contact you to discuss further

PROTECTED B when completed 
 
Page 20/20 
 
(i.e. not an automatic project disqualification). To the best of your knowledge: 
 
Are any current or former Government of Canada employees, excluding 
your current point of contact within the program, working or associated 
with the development of this proposal or project? 
No 
Will a current or former public servant or any of their relatives or friends 
be receiving any personal or financial benefit of any kind as a result of 
the Government of Canada entering into an agreement with your 
organization? 
No 
Have you, any individual working in your organization, your partners’ 
organizations, or any individual working in their organization, formerly 
provided consultancy services to the Minister or departments that are 
related to this project, particularly any services associated with 
developing the proposal? 
No 
Please sign below to confirm having read and understood the statements above 
 Signature: 
 
Date: 2025-03-04 
Name of Duly 
Authorized Officer: Grant Sullivan 
Title: President