Last Update : October 2024 
 
BIS – Project Proposal Template 
 
V3 
Business Strategy Internship 
Proposal Template 
 
 
             INSTRUCTIONS 
 
DECLARATIONS 
Mitacs  will not approve  a BSI application  if the intern listed on the proposal has a position of ownership, employment, or influence over the 
daily operations of the partner organization. Interns with close family or intimate relationships with academic supervisors o r employees of the 
partner orga nization are also ineligible.  Any other real or perc eived conflict of interest (COI) - for example, past intern employment at the 
partner organization  - must be disclosed to Mitacs during the application process  using the Intern Eligibility and Conflict of Interest 
Declaration Form. Academic supervisors  must disclose any COIs through the  Academic Institution Acknowledgement of COI(s) Form, and 
submit this documentation on behalf of their post -secondary institution  when applying through the Registration and Application Portal (RAP).  
 
Mitacs will first determine if BSI program rules are satisfied, and if so  Mitacs will then review the COI to determine whether mitiga tions can be 
enacted to manage the COI.  If a COI does exist, we suggest that you contact your Mitacs Advisor prior to starting an application to ensure that the 
participants in this project are eligible for the program. Please view the Mitacs Conflict of Interest Policy for more information.    
 
PLEASE NOTE : Failure to disclose a COI will :  
• Delay the project evaluation process. 
• Require submission of a  COI mitigation approach  satisfactory to Mitacs before project work initiates  or continues . 
• Risk forced withdrawal from the BSI program , should a satisfactory mitigation plan not be reached.  
 
Have any applicants declared a COI via the appropriate documentation?        ☐  Yes, an intern        ☐  Yes, an academic supervisor        ☒  No                     
Please indicate if any of the below statements are true. 
☐ One or more named interns self-declares as an Indigenous person. 
☐ The partner organization is a for-profit organization with self-identifying Indigenous persons who hold 50% or greater ownership shares. 
☐ The partner organization is a not-for-profit with board membership consisting of 50% or greater self-identifying Indigenous persons. 
☒ The partner organization is a not-for-profit whose core mandate includes Indigenous community impact or serving Indigenous communities. 
 
* If any of the above statements are true, your organization may be eligible for enhanced leveraging via the Mitacs Indigenous Pathways 
Initiative. Please check with your Mitacs Advisor for more information.  
Please select all the types of innovation you will significantly impact through your project. Refer to the following definition of innovation for further 
information: Defining innovation - OECD. 
    ☐  Product innovation                    ☐  Process innovation                    ☐  Marketing innovation                    ☐  Organizational innovation 
 
 
1. To fill out this template, download a copy to your computer and save as a Word document. You may need a copy of your completed 
proposal in Word format if your proposal requires any revisions, so make sure to save two versions: a Word version alongside a PDF copy.  
2. Your project content should be at least 3-5 pages in length for one 4-6 month internship unit. Larger projects may exceed this page count.  
3. Once complete, upload the PDF version of your completed proposal to the Mitacs online Registration and Application Portal (RAP). 
4. Do not modify or remove  text or instructions  in each section/subsection or reformat this form in any way. A modified form will result in a 
delay in the internship evaluation process. 
5. All sections of the proposal form must be complete to be considered for the program. 
6. Read the Application Guide (Appendix A) starting on page 4 and Appendix B on page 6 to learn more about the selection criteria that will 
be used to evaluate your proposal.

Last Update : October 2024 
 
BSI – Project Proposal Template 
2 
 
Business Strategy Internship 
Proposal Template 
2. Project Details 
2.1 PROJECT DESCRIPTION 
2.1.a. Background (What problem needs to be solved?) 
Provide an overview and describe the main activities of the partner organization . Explain the innovation challenge or improvement 
priority that the partner needs to solve. Specify how this project will help the partner organization address those challenges in a way 
that goes beyond day-to-day business operations/activities. Describe what kind of expertise is required to solve the problem.  
 
Overview of partner organization  
The City of Iqaluit’s Municipal Infrastructure & Planning Office of the SED manages the long-range strategic 
planning that establishes the community’s future land use, growth, and municipal investment. Their work 
includes.... this process includes....  
 
Description of current challenge 
The municipal Infrastructure and Planning office is responsible for a number of services, such as [x, y, and 
z]. Currently, the departments within the City of Iqaluit are facing challenges with service delivery as the city 
grows. The existing process has proved to be inefficient, outdated, and is struggling to meet the workload of 
a modern-day municipality in Canada.  
 
This funding will support a student for four months to develop a solution that tackles outdated systems 
responsible for facilitating collaboration and service delivery between city departments. The placement 
student will work through a multi-step modernization process consisting of mapping, automating, optimizing, 
and tracking the integration of tools essential for timely service delivery.  
 
The solution will be designed to streamline interdepartmental processes, with an automated integration 
capable of balancing input from a network of collaborators and responding appropriately. The culmination of 
the intern’s work will be used to train present and future employees in workload management and effective 
collaboration, improving the lives of municipal workers and the community members they serve.  
 
Impact of project  
The Digital Integration and Automation intern will transfer the Infrastructure and Planning Office’s service 
delivery from a reactive, manual process to a process optimized for employee ease-of-use and 
communication, moving the projects impact beyond day-to-day activities.  
 
One key role the intern will play in their placement is developing API connections between applications to 
automate the complex interplay of routine tasks. By doing this, the student will massively increase the 
capacity of the city’s workforce by reducing the tedious and unnecessary manual work of its employees. This 
shift will allow the city to improve its operational efficiency in the long-term, which, in turn, will foster a 
healthy and satisfied workplace.   
 
Expertise required to solve the problem 
Specialized expertise required to develop this solution include:  
• Skill A

Last Update : October 2024 
 
BSI – Project Proposal Template 
3 
 
Business Strategy Internship 
Proposal Template 
• Skill B 
• Skill C 
2.1.b. Objectives and Approach (How will the problem be solved?) 
State the objectives for this project and explain how you plan to accomplish them. Enough detail should be provided so that it is clear 
whether the described approach is appropriate to achieve each objective. For projects with more than one intern, clearly explain 
which objective(s) each intern will work on.  
 
The primary objective of the intern’s student placement is to modernize how the City of Iqaluit’s departments 
collaborate and deliver services. This tech-focused role supports the integration of essential tools like 
Asana, Outlook, SharePoint, Laserfiche, CloudPermit, Fleetio, and Geotab into the Municipal Infrastructure 
& Planning Office’s workflow. The developed solution will utilize API connections between applications to 
automate routine tasks, and will be accompanied by informational documentation to support training present 
and future employees at the City of Iqaluit.  
This will be accomplished by first mapping the existing digital workflow across city systems and marking 
junctions that can be optimized. Once this is completed, the student will move to designing API connections 
capable of communicating between digital tools to facilitate the automation of tasks. Then, the student will 
be charged with testing their solution with departmental teams within the city‘s staff, and finally, will create 
documentation and training materials to support system adoption.   
2.1.c. Timeline (Who will solve the problem and how much effort will be required?) 
Insert a timeline showing which task(s) will be performed when, and by which intern in order to achieve the objectives stated above 
(consider breaking this down by week for shorter projects or by month for longer projects via a Gantt chart) . Ensure there are no 
gaps in the timeline and that the effort required to complete each task matches the amount of time allocated for each intern. 
 
 Months covered by 
current proposal 
 
TASK 1 2 3 4 RESPONSIBLE 
Mapping Digital Workflow      Mitacs Intern 
Workflow Process Improvement     Mitacs Intern 
Modeling Solution Research and Testing     Mitacs Intern 
Modeling Solution Implementation      Mitacs Intern 
Creation of API Connections     Mitacs Intern 
 Pilot Testing with Department X     Mitacs Intern 
Feedback and Revision Implementation     Mitacs Intern 
System Process Documentation     Mitacs Intern 
System Training Documentation     Mitacs Intern 
Knowledge Mobilization Efforts     Mitacs Intern 
 
2.1.d. Deliverables (What does success look like?) 
List the deliverables or tangible results you expect from the project and identify which intern is responsible for it. For example, will 
you develop a new patent/prototype/product/service, business model, business process, or will you access new markets? Will th e 
intern be expected to produce a report, evaluation, presentation, etc.?  
 
DELIVERABLE ASSOCIATED OUTPUT INTERN RESPONSIBLE

Last Update : October 2024 
 
BSI – Project Proposal Template 
4 
 
Business Strategy Internship 
Proposal Template 
A fully developed and functional 
workflow process. 
A series of API connections capable of 
automating task flow between a host of 
digital applications utilized by the city of 
Iqaluit 
Necessary process overview and system 
training documentation necessary for 
operationalization and integration into 
existing City of Iqaluit services.  
INTERN NAME 
 
2.2 INTERNSHIP BENEFITS 
2.2.a. Benefits and Impacts to Canada 
If this project potentially impacts broader challenges that society or the  industry faces, please describe how the project will help 
address these challenges. Why are these contributions important? 
 
The challenge of efficient workflow is not unique to the City of Iqaluit– it is a challenge that is prevalent in 
municipalities, offices, and all other workspaces across Canada. Along with all-encompassing digitization of 
many day-to-day work tasks has come a host of management-related applications, each with their own 
unique functionality and process. For large-scale operations such as those conducted by municipalities like 
the City of Iqaluit, shifting, updating, and synching information between project management applications eats 
up unnecessary time in employee‘s workdays.    
Knowing how prevalent this issue is across the Canadian workforce, the developed, implemented, and 
evaluated solution will be... [information about the intended outcome of knowledge mobilization work with the 
FCI] 
Successful implementation of this solution is expected to yield several key benefits, including enhanced 
operational efficiency, improved employee productivity, and increased job satisfaction. Adopting an 
automated workflow API such as the one being developed through this internship can lead to economic, 
health, and social benefits by ensuring that staff’s work time is fulfilling and productive. Considering the City 
of Iqaluit's responsibility to its community, this benefit is doubled. From a health perspective, the timely 
delivery of critical municipal services can improve the quality of life for Iqaluit’s community members, 
providing social benefit in turn by improving trust in the local government.  
2.2.b. Benefits to the Intern(s) 
Explain how participating in this project aligns with the academic studies  of the intern(s) . How is participating in the project 
expected to benefit their future career(s)? For example, will they expand their professional network, gain knowledge in a business 
context, or develop skills in problem-solving, communication, project management, creative thinking, etc.? 
An intern's participation in automating the City of Iqaluit’s workflow processes aligns with their academic 
studies by providing invaluable practical application of theoretical concepts, such as software interface, 
system design, and API development to real-world, complex municipal challenges.

Last Update : October 2024 
 
BSI – Project Proposal Template 
5 
 
Business Strategy Internship 
Proposal Template 
 
For their student’s future careers, this experience will significantly expand their professional network by 
creating connections to workers across multiple municipal departments. The intern will also gain 
crucial knowledge of public sector operations and develop problem-solving and critical thinking skills 
by tackling novel issues with no pre-existing solution.  
 
Furthermore, a student-led initative will foster project management skills, experience in stakeholder 
communication, ethical data handling, and the critical ability to operationalize solutions from ideation to 
deployment, providing a unique and highly sought-after portfolio of practical experience. 
2.3 INTERNSHIP ENVIRONMENT 
2.3.a. Description of the Academic Internship Environment 
i. Please describe the nature of academic supervision during the internship period. Explain the type and frequency of interactions  
(e.g., meetings, phone calls, etc.) between the intern and academic supervisor. 
ii. Will the project make use of the resources and/or facilities of the academic institution? If so, please describe.  
Academic Internship Environment 
The Future Cities Insitute (FCI), founded by CAIVAN is committed to fostering healthy, prosperous cities and 
communities in Canada and beyond through interdisciplinary partnerships, action-oriented research, and data-
informed decision-making. The Infrastructure & Planning Office at the City of Iqaluit is one of FCI’s core partners 
due to their innovative approach to Iqaluit’s growth and development and dedication to creating a strong and 
healthy community rooted in culture and sustainability.  
 
Nature of academic supervision 
The intern will meet virtually with Dr. Leia Minaker (Director, Future Cities Institute, Faculty of Environment) at 
least once a month to ensure ongoing alignment with the goals and objectives of the Future Cities Institute and 
to discuss progress towards knowledge mobilization outcomes. 
 
Use of UWaterloo resources and/or facilities 
The initial development, implementation and evaluation of the solution wil l use ver y few  resources from  
UWaterloo. However, members of the FCI staff ( Director and Research Coordinator and Communications 
Officer) will be engaged throughout the internship to support academic knowledge mobilization and/or 
communication activities.  
 
2.3.b. Description of the Partner Internship Environment 
i. Please state the nature of the partner interaction:     ☐  Onsite     ☒  Virtual     ☐  Hybrid 
ii. Describe the working environment at the partner  organization and the type  and frequency of interactions between the 
intern(s) and employees. For example, what resources, facilities /equipment, and specialized training will the intern (s) have 
access to? If the intern(s) will work virtually, how will they be exposed to the activities and culture of the partner organization?  
The Placement Student will regularly connect with the Infrastructure & Planning Office’s dynamic, innovative, 
and highly collaborative environment in the City of Iqaluit virtually.

Last Update : October 2024 
 
BSI – Project Proposal Template 
6 
 
Business Strategy Internship 
Proposal Template 
 
The student is expected to map and optimize digital workflow across city systems, and thus will be required to 
test integrations across departments within the organization. By doing this, the student will be exposed  to the 
culture of the broader organization. The student will further be tasked with the creation and documentation of 
training materials to support the adoption of their innovative solutions . This task will overlap with academic 
knowledge mobilization activities facilitated by the FCI, allowing the intern to experience additional workplace 
cultures.    
 
2.4 PAST/OTHER MITACS PROJECTS  
Is this application related to, or a continuation of, any previous or current Mitacs projects?     ☐  Yes     ☒  No 
If Yes, provide specifics about the relationship(s), including relevant project IT#(s). If the current project is a continuation of  prior 
work, briefly describe how it meaningfully furthers what has been previously achieved. 
N/A 
2.5 ENGAGEMENT WITH INDIGENOUS COMMUNITIES OR PARTNERS (IF APPLICABLE) 
Projects that involve or impact Indigenous communities must comply with the Mitacs Indigenous Research Policy . Describe (1) 
Indigenous community support for the project, and their role in shaping its objectives/approach, (2) plans for Indigenous community 
access, use, and governance of resulting knowledge/data, and (3) the team background in Indigenous research, including planned 
training/mentorship the intern(s) will receive to address deficits in experience. 
You may also submit 1-2 letter(s) of support from Indigenous Elders who are members of the partner community/communities and 
possess the authority to speak on community interests.    
N/A 
2.6 INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (IF APPLICABLE) 
Explain how this project supports the creation and/or ownership of IP for the partner organization. If the project provides 
education or training about IP for any of the participants, explain here.  
Any intellectual property created by a Placement Student during their participation in the Program or 
performance of the Work will be the exclusive property of the City of Iqaluit(the "Intellectual Property"). 
 
The City of Iqaluit may, at its discretion, provide advance written consent to a Placement Student for their use 
of the Intellectual Property for non-commercial purposes. 
 
The City of Iqaluit also agrees to facilitate the reasonable use of the Intellectual Property by the University of 
Waterloo for academic purposes related to the administration of a Placement Student’s education, where 
applicable.

Last Update : October 2024 
 
BSI – Project Proposal Template 
7 
 
Business Strategy Internship 
Proposal Template 
Subject to the protection of any confidential information of the City of Iqaluit or information otherwise 
protected under applicable legislation, including the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act 
(RSA 2000, c F-25), as amended, this reasonable use by the University of Waterloo will include posting each 
Placement Student’s final reports and presentations related to the Work on the University's website. 
2.7 REFERENCES / SOURCES (IF APPLICABLE) 
List any references you have cited in your proposal.  
N/A

Last Update : October 2024 
 
BSI – Project Proposal Template 
8 
 
Business Strategy Internship 
Proposal Template 
Appendix A: Application Guide 
Introduction 
All applicants must complete all sections of the application form. Please contact your Mitacs Advisor if you have questions.  The 
approval criteria can be found in  Appendix B . I ndividual projects are not expected to meet all the criteria . As you write your 
application, be sure to include information about those criteria that do apply to your project. 
Application checklist (what you need to apply) 
✓ This application form completed and uploaded to the RAP. 
▪ All participants (intern, partner organization, academic supervisor) must create accounts in RAP and sign off on the project 
within RAP. 
✓ Office of Research Services (ORS) or equivalent signature on the proposal. 
▪ A signature template is provided as part of the RAP application process . The lead applicant on the proposal will be 
responsible for collecting the ORS or equivalent signature and uploading the signature page to RAP. 
▪ Your academic institution must sign off on this proposal once all sections of the RAP are complete and all participants have 
signed off on the application. Instructions are provided in RAP.  
 
Eligibility 
Mitacs funds research and innovation projects. The BSI program focuses on innovation projects. Innovation projects are expected 
to lead to change s or improvements for the partner and/or community through exploration, design , and implementation of 
efficiencies in business models, products, processes , or services. Proposals should describe how the project will lead to economic, 
health and/or social benefits for the partner organization and/or the community and society at large. 
Intern eligibility  
Eligible interns for projects involving non-academic (industry or NFP) partners are:   
▪ college students (any program) who may do up to three four- to six-month internships  
▪ undergraduate students (any program) who may do up to three four- to six-month internships  
▪ university master’s students who may do up to six four- to six-month internships  
▪ PhD students who may do up to twelve four- to six-month internships  
▪ postdoctoral fellows (at colleges or universities)  who may do up to nine four- to six-months internships (a full three years 
of funding) 
  
Academic supervisor eligibility  
Eligible academic supervisors are: 
▪ professors at Canadian universities who are eligible to receive Tri-Agency funds  
▪ faculty or appropriate research staff at Canadian colleges 
 
The academic supervisor who signs the proposal may choose to involve other qualified staff individuals at the academic institution, 
such as program or research staff or senior graduate students and/or postdocs in the hands -on supervision of interns. Any su ch 
collaborators or informal co-supervisors do not need to be listed on the application form as supervisors, but their roles in supporting 
the intern(s) should be described in the proposal.

Last Update : October 2024 
 
BSI – Project Proposal Template 
9 
 
Business Strategy Internship 
Proposal Template

Last Update : October 2024 
 
BSI – Project Proposal Template 
10 
 
Business Strategy Internship 
Proposal Template 
 
Partner organization eligibility  
Eligible partner organizations are:  
▪ for-profit corporations in Canada  
▪ NFP organizations in Canada  
o Eligible NFPs include charities, economic development organizations, industry associations, social welfare 
organizations, health organizations, foundations, and research centers/institutes.  
o Projects with an NFP partner must demonstrate an economic or productivity orientation, which must be described 
in the proposal.  
▪ municipalities  
▪ hospitals  
 
Collaboration 
Collaboration is an essential feature of many Mitacs projects. BSI projects may involve a collaboration between:  
▪ an academic institution  and a  non-academic partner  organization that participates in and contributes funds to the 
project.  
▪ These projects may be built in four- to six-month internship units, each valued at:  
o $10,000 with a $5,000 contribution from the partner organization; or 
o $15,000 with a $7,500 contribution from the partner organization. 
 
Collaboration with non-academic organizations 
Projects involving non-academic partner organizations (i.e., companies, eligible not -for-profits [NFPs]) require a true collaboration 
between the intern, their academic supervisor and institution, and the partner organization. The non-academic partner organization 
is not just a financial sponsor of the project; they are expected to participate in the  development and completion of the  project 
alongside the intern(s). In -person interaction at the partner’s location is required when feasible, but we recognize that due to 
pandemic restrictions, many organizations began working virtually, and that this mode of wo rk continues in some fields as part of 
the new normal. If the non-academic partner organization does not have a physical location where the intern can interact with their 
staff, be sure to clearly describe plans for virtual interaction. It is also important to note that Mitacs projects are not work placements 
or traditional co-ops. Academic supervisors (and/or other members of the supervisory team at the academic institution) are 
expected to play an active role in advising the intern throughout the project.

Last Update : October 2024 
 
BSI – Project Proposal Template 
11 
 
Business Strategy Internship 
Proposal Template 
 
Appendix B: Selection Criteria 
 
Mitacs will review applications to ensure that minimum requirements for completeness and project eligibility are met. For 
information about this, please refer to the submission checklist below.  
Mitacs will also assess the benefits of the project in terms of: the economic and societal impact; the development and deployment 
of talent; and the establishment and support of collaborations. A project does not need to demonstrate benefits in each category 
(project, talent, and collaboration) since strength in one category can make up for weakness in another. Projects that demonstrate 
little or no benefit across all categories will not be approved by Mitacs. 
In addition to assessing the benefits of a project, each project will also be reviewed to ensure that it does not contain any 
unmanageable risks in the categories of: feasibility, loss of talent or international assets from Canada, economic and nation al 
security risks, and adverse effects on humans, animals, and/or the environment. Projects with high risks must demonstrate 
correspondingly high benefits to Canada and risk mitigation measures should be included in the proposal to justify approval by 
Mitacs. 
While the selection process is not currently competitive, if funding does become limited, Mitacs will prioritize approval bas ed on 
the potential cumulative benefits of the project. 
Requirements for all projects 
❑ The description of the why (the background), the what (the objectives), the how (the approach), the when (the timelines), 
and the project outputs (the deliverables), must be clear for all projects. 
 
Requirements for all collaborations 
❑ Objectives must be aligned with the knowledge, skills, expertise, and needs of all participants. 
❑ Each party’s roles and responsibilities must be clear to all signatories on the application. 
❑ Each party’s expectations on deliverables, priorities, and time sensitivities must be clear to all signatories on the application. 
❑ Agreement on intellectual property rights, ownership, royalties must be clear to all signatories on the application. 
 
Requirements for all internships 
❑ A structure must be in place to provide academic support that is appropriate to the level of the intern(s). 
❑ There must be sufficient support / supervision from the internship host at the partner organization. 
❑ There must be sufficient capacity at the internship host to manage the planned number of interns. 
 
Requirements for all projects involving Indigenous peoples or communities 
❑ Project must have the support of the affected communities and those who have rights or a stake in the endeavor. 
❑ Indigenous communities must have been involved in shaping the project from inception, and Elders and Knowledge Holders 
must have been directly engaged. 
❑ There must be clear agreement on Indigenous communities’ access, use, and governance of resulting knowledge and data.

Last Update : October 2024 
 
BSI – Project Proposal Template 
12 
 
Business Strategy Internship 
Proposal Template 
❑ The project team must demonstrate the capacity to engage with Indigenous communities or partners in line with 
appropriate guidelines, principles, and policies (for more information please refer to our Indigenous Research Guidelines).

Last Update : October 2024 
 
BSI – Project Proposal Template 
13 
 
Business Strategy Internship 
Proposal Template 
 
Project 
Examples of how a project can demonstrate potential economic and societal impacts include, but are not limited to: 
▪ creating or commercializing Canadian technology/intellectual property 
▪ discovering new and broadly applicable knowledge 
▪ enhancing Canadian productivity by developing new and improved processes 
▪ supporting the entry of Canadian businesses into new domestic/international markets 
▪ developing new business models for Canadian companies 
▪ improving public services (e.g. transportation infrastructure, utilities, healthcare) in Canada 
▪ contributing new solutions to community challenges in Canada 
▪ addressing social or environmental issues important to Canadian society 
▪ advancing new approaches to include under-represented groups in the knowledge economy 
▪ working towards a more equal and equitable Canada 
▪ implementing evidence-informed strategies to address a specific challenge 
 
Talent 
Examples of how a project can demonstrate the potential for supporting the development of a talented and skilled population include, 
but are not limited to: 
▪ interns gaining specialized technical skills through access to and training on the use of specialized equipment and facilities 
▪ training interns in research skills 
▪ training interns in interdisciplinary teamwork 
▪ training interns in community-based methodologies 
▪ training interns in entrepreneurial/professional skills through structured activities 
▪ creating opportunities for interns to apply their knowledge / skills and solve industry/real-world problems 
▪ re-skilling/up-skilling interns to pursue new and emerging opportunities in Canada 
▪ placing interns in positions (at Canadian companies or organizations) appropriate to their training/skills 
▪ interns being introduced to new professional experiences/environments/contacts/networks in Canada 
▪ supporting individuals from under-represented groups in the knowledge economy 
 
Collaboration 
Examples of how a project can demonstrate the anticipated benefits associated with collaboration include, but are not limited to: 
▪ bringing people together to solve problems through complementary skills and expertise 
▪ sharing access to data, facilities, instruments for mutual benefit 
▪ exchanging knowledge among academia, industry, communities 
▪ moving tacit knowledge into practice through interdisciplinary teamwork 
▪ supporting long-term relationships between academia, industry, communities 
▪ establishing new collaborations between academia, industry, communities 
▪ attracting foreign investment, talent, and innovative companies to Canada

Last Update : October 2024 
 
BSI – Project Proposal Template 
14 
 
Business Strategy Internship 
Proposal Template 
 
▪ creating partnerships with communities that are under-represented in the knowledge economy 
▪ linking Canadian researchers to prominent research groups globally