1 
 
Full Title: “Investigating the links between Canadian cities’ social infrastructure and community 
health: Mapping national trends of self-reported health and behaviour, social connection, chronic 
conditions, and mortality” 
 
 
Summary:

2 
 
Lay Title: 
 
Lay Abstract: 
 
CCHS PUMFs | CSS PUMFs | SMHSE PUMFs | CVSD PUMFs | CENSUS PUMFs |

3 
 
1 BACKGROUND & OBJECTIVES: 
 Inequities in social determinants of health (SDoH) like the local built environment, 
community safety, social networks, and access to physical activity opportunities1 can result in 
differences in life expectancy up to 33 years between countries.2 In Canada, understanding the 
myriad implications of SDoH differentials and disparate health outcomes is of increasing 
importance to governments at all levels seeking to achieve health equity and improved health 
trajectories for vulnerable communities.e.g., 3,4 Illustrative examples of the links between SDoH 
and disparate health outcomes in Canada include area income (e.g., lower area income correlated 
with lower life expectancy), material and social deprivation (e.g., greater deprivation associated 
with higher suicide mortality), and physical and social environments (e.g., prevalence of living in 
below-standard housing is ~7.5x higher for Canadians in the lowest income group).5 Leaving 
SDoH unaddressed with respect to environmental factors comes at significant cost for 
Canadians. Poor mental health, including mental illnesses, is estimated to cost $51 billion 
annually in health care expenditures and lost economic productivity.6 Low levels of physical 
inactivity in Canada similarly has total direct and indirect annual health care costs of $4.3-$9.3 
billion,7 as well as an additional $2.2 billion in costs related to decreased work capacity and 
productivity losses.8 Emerging research multiple country trends also notes rising economic and 
health care costs associated with social isolation; for instance, in the US, Medicare programs 
spend $6.7 billion USD annually to address loneliness,9 in the UK an estimated £2.5 billion is 
lost in annual economic productivity due to loneliness-related issues like greater absences and 
turnover,10 and in the Netherlands loneliness is associated with an indirect increase of €3.5 
billion in total healthcare expenditures.11 
 An emerging potentially cost-effective and community level intervention to support the 
health of Canadians is addressing local SDoH, and specifically the quality of area social 
infrastructure (SI; i.e., places and spaces like gardens, gathering sites, libraries, parks/pools, and 
pubs that help build and maintain community and social life12). High quality SI can measurably 
improve different aspects of health such as resilience, social ties, and active living13–15 as a result 
of allowing for people to build connections, develop healthy and active habits, and enhance 
collective action capacity. SI can also have important protective health benefits. For instance, 
everyday networking places like sites for local community organizations (e.g., community 
centres),16 cafés, and places of worship can function as nodes through which individuals engage 
in building and strengthening social ties thereby mitigating the potential for isolation and 
loneliness.17 However, SI is a relatively new concept18 that has only recently been connected to 
health services19 and recreational studies20 topics. Moreover, international reviews of SI have 
reported most existing research appears to be local in scale (i.e., few national-scale analyses),21 
lacks clarity regarding which specific communities (e.g., vulnerable social identity groups) may 
benefit the most and in what ways from SI,22 and is yet to directly link SI with a comprehensive 
set of health outcomes beyond social indicators.23 Using the 25 largest municipalities in Canada 
to map national trends regarding how the quality of local SI is associated with multiple 
dimensions of health, the proposed research has three objectives: 
O1: Explore how the quality and prevalence of local SI affects self-reported overall physical and 
mental health (CCHS), and the size and strength of social networks (CSS); [i.e., overall health, 
social networks] 
O2: Investigate how the quality and prevalence of local SI predicts drug and alcohol use and 
smoking behaviours (CCHS), as well as engagement in healthy and help-seeking behaviours

4 
 
(SMHSE); [i.e., unhealthy and healthy behaviour] and incidences of chronic conditions 
(SMHSE/CCHS) and causes of mortality (CVSD). [i.e., chronic conditions, health trajectories, 
mortality] 
O3: Investigate how residents of two distinct RoW neighbourhoods regarding their SI quality 
(i.e., low-quality SI, high-quality SI), as determined by the measure developed in O1-O2, 
perceive, access, and make use of their local SI apropos of their health/illness. 
2 RESEARCH METHODS & TIMELINES: 
This research aligns with CIHRs Institute of Population and Public Health (IPPH) mandate, and 
specifically the areas structural determinants of health and public health systems, and will 
proceed via three sequential studies that, collectively, quantify the influence of SI as component 
of both the structural determinants and public health system in Canada. 
2.1 SI and Overall Health, Social Support (O1): Explore SI and self-reported overall physical 
and mental health, and the size and strength of social networks (April 26/July 26). 
2.1.1 Data Linking: Google Maps Places API + 2021 Census + 2021 CSS + 2021 CCHS 
2.1.2 Variables:  
Independent Variables: quality of local social infrastructure (derived from Google Maps Places 
API: map libraries, community centers, city hall facilities, places of worship, cafes, bookstores, 
parks, squares, fountains, and gardens). 
Dependent Variables:  
Self-reported health (CCHS): overall health assessment, life satisfaction, mental health 
assessment, life stress assessment, work stress assessment, difficulties with personal care, and 
mobility limitations.  
Social networks (CSS): sense of belonging to local community, sense of belonging in Canada, 
someone to count on, loneliness, number of peopled trusted in neighbourhood, and total number 
of acquaintances. 
Covariates (all in the 2021 Census): age, family structure, citizenship, dwelling types, ethnic or 
cultural origin, gender, highest certificate/diploma/degree, household low-income status, 
immigrant status, household after-tax income groups, labour force status (3), marital status 
2.1.3 Data Analysis: 
2.2 SI and Daily Health Behaviours, Long-Term Health  (O2): Investigate SI and drug and 
alcohol use and smoking behaviour, engagement in healthy and help-seeking behaviours (Aug 
26/Nov 26). 
2.2.1 Data Linking: Google Maps Places API + 2021 Census + 2021 SMHSE & CCHS + 2021 
CVSD 
2.2.2 Variables: 
Independent Variables: quality of local social infrastructure (derived from Google Maps Places 
API: map libraries, community centers, city hall facilities, places of worship, cafes, bookstores, 
parks, squares, fountains, and gardens). 
Dependent Variables:

5 
 
Alcohol Use (CCHS): ever had a drink, drink in last 12 months, frequency of drinking in last 12 
months, frequency of drinking more than 4/5 drinks in last 12 months. 
Drug Use (CCHS): ever used hard drugs, hard drug use in last 12 months, ever use of 
amphetamines/methamphetamines, amphetamines/methamphetamines use in last 12 months, 
ever use of intravenous drug use, intravenous drug use in last 12 months 
Stressful Events (CSS): any experience of highly stressful or traumatic events, worst event 
experienced, age at worst event experienced, contemplated suicide, contemplated suicide as a 
result of worst experience, social impacts of stressful events 
Healthy: Physical Activity (18+) (CCHS): physical activity in last 7 days, time spent in physical 
activity in last 7 days, MVPA last 7 days, time spent in MVPA in last 7 days 
Healthy: Healthy Behaviours (CSS): type of activities engaged in to maintain or improve health 
Healthy: Mental Health Services (CSS): any use of resources to management emotions/mental 
health/alcohol/drugs, type of resource used 
Covariates (all in the 2021 Census): age, family structure, citizenship, dwelling types, ethnic or 
cultural origin, gender, highest certificate/diploma/degree, household low-income status, 
immigrant status, household after-tax income groups, labour force status (3), marital status 
2.2.3 Data Analysis: 
2.3 SI and Long-Term Health (O3): Comparative investigation of RoW residents perceptions, 
access, and usage of local SI regarding health/illness (Dec 26/Mar 27). 
2.3.1 Data Collection:  
2.3.2 Variables: 
Independent Variables: quality of local social infrastructure (derived from Google Maps Places 
API: map libraries, community centers, city hall facilities, places of worship, cafes, bookstores, 
parks, squares, fountains, and gardens). 
Dependent Variables: Chronic condition measures will be taken from the 2021 SMHSE and 2021 
CCHS. Measures from the SMSHE will include assessments of mood disorders (e.g., depression, 
bipolar), anxiety disorders (e.g., OCD, panic disorder), and PTSD. Items from the CCHS will be 
evaluations of sleep apnea, arthritis, high blood pressure, heart disease, stroke, diabetes, cancer, 
Alzheimer's Disease, and chronic fatigue syndrome.  
Health trajectory assessments will be assessed for both tails of the lifecourse using multiple items 
from the 2021 CVSD. ‘Infancy and childhood’ life trajectory measures will include perinatal 
death of population, birth weight of infant, and health-adjusted life expectancy of person. With 
respect to ‘late adulthood’ measures included in the analyses will be probability of survival of 
person, potential years of life lost of person, and potentially avoidable mortality of person. 
Mortality measures will also be taken from the 2021 CVSD and will include age at time of death 
of person, cause of death of person (type), and premature mortality of person (type).

6 
 
Covariates (all in the 2021 Census): age, family structure, citizenship, dwelling types, ethnic or 
cultural origin, gender, highest certificate/diploma/degree, household low-income status, 
immigrant status, household after-tax income groups, labour force status (3), marital status 
2.3.3 Data Analysis: 
3 CHALLENGES & MITIGATION PLANS: 
 This project will involve the creation of a national dataset quantifying the nature and 
quality of SI in Canada’s largest municipalities. There are two important challenges to note about 
this task. Fist, while we plan to operationalize SI in accordance with current literature (i.e., 
places and spaces that help build/maintain community and social life12), we recognize that there 
are other outlines of SI that introduce features such as SI being the “system of organizations … 
that enable people to connect24” that are difficult to quantify. Unable to quantify larger, more 
abstract notions of ‘systems’ in the analysis, our approach uses a fairly broad definition of SI that 
makes room for the inclusion of as many important spatial influences including green and blue 
spaces (gardens, parks, pools, ponds), communal gathering sites (plazas, pedestrian malls, public 
easements), pedestrian infrastructure (trails, multi-modal paths, sidewalks), educational resources 
(libraries, schools), leisure sites (community centres, sports facilities), and social settings (pubs, 
restaurants). And second, we elected to create a database of SI for XX municipalities in Canada 
where the average population is XXX,XXX and spatial size is XXX.X km2 (per publicly 
available StatCan information). Consequently, we recognize that our analyses are not 
generalizable to smaller population or more compact communities. Intending to publish our 
results in open access journals and provide evidence briefs on our Team’s new open access 
policy platform (www.CivicInquire.com), we will encourage future research to use or adapt out 
method and explore the community typologies we were unable to investigate in this research. 
Other potential challenges include … Linking issues? Coarse quantifications of SI due to API?  
4 RESEARCH TEAM:  
NPA Leia Minaker is an Associate Professor in the School of Planning at UW. She is also the 
Director of the Future Cities Institute (FCI) at UW and has expertise in public health research, 
urban planning, epidemiological risk assessment analyses, SDoH (esp. built environment, health 
disparities), dataset linking, and knowledge mobilization (KMb) strategies and resource 
development for health and planning practitioners. She will lead the team across O1-O3, as well 
as help organize the KMb activities. Co-I Troy Glover is a Professor in the Department of 
Recreation and Leisure Studies at UW. He is also the Director of the Healthy Communities 
Research Network and with expertise in social infrastructure, municipal policy analysis, the 
social impacts of urban planning, and qualitative methods. He will help lead the qualitative 
components of the proposed research (O3) and assist in the data collection and analysis of O1 
and O3, and will also be involved in the recruitment for and running of the KMb activities. Co-I 
Rob Feick is an Associate Professor in the School of Planning at UW. He has expertise in 
methods for using geospatial information technology and data to support municipal decision 
making, GIS for infrastructure evaluations and assessments, and geospatial data visualization 
KMb tool development. He will lead the analysis and contribute to the write-up for O1 and O2, 
as well as support the KMb activities. Co-I Adrian Buttazzoni is an SSHRC postdoctoral fellow 
in the School of Planning at UW who has expertise with health policy, community health 
promotion, urban design and human health/social outcomes, SDoH (esp. housing, built 
environment, community social well-being), and urban planning. He will assist with the project

7 
 
coordination, data collection and cleaning, analysis, and writing tasks associated with O1-O3 
and support the KMb activities. PKU Eric Avner is the President & CEO of the Waterloo 
Region Community Foundation (WRCF)… Collaborator Derek Phillips …   
5 KNOWLEDGE MOBILIZATION: 
NPA Minaker is Director of the University of Waterloo’s Future Cities Institute (FCI). The FCI’s 
purpose is to foster healthy, prosperous future cities through applied, interdisciplinary research. 
The FCI has strong and extensive networks, including municipalities, planners, developers, and 
elected officials. Working closely with PKU Avner and Collaborator Phillips, the NPA and Co-
Is will organize two local city sprints (i.e., group meetings for action planning, timelines). City 
sprints will be organized around the theme of ‘building and promoting social infrastructure to 
support community cohesion and well-being’. Our team, which includes the Waterloo Region 
Community Foundation, will engage other relevant community partners (e.g., local planners, 
local municipal officials) and research members (e.g., healthcare system, social welfare system 
researchers) to participate in the two city sprints. Specifically, we use a 2-day design where both 
sprints are developed and facilitated by the FCI and invited partners are instructed to focus on 
identifying potential solutions and developing prototypes to address challenges found in O1-O3. 
6 ANTICIPATED IMPACTS:  
This will be one of the first national-level spatial analyses of the relationships between local SI 
quality and prevalence and a multitude of health outcomes that capture perceptions of health, 
daily health behaviours, and long-term chronic condition and mortality trends. Our intersectional 
analyses, which will explore the extent to which SI potentially uniquely affects the health of 
several equity-deserving groups (e.g., low-income families), will help identify how structural 
determinants of health (e.g., urban design) and public health system (e.g., access to services) in 
Canadian cities contribute to disparate assessments of individual health trajectories and, risks for 
unhealthy behavioural habits, and long-term health outcomes. By leveraging FCI support and our 
professional links associated with the WRCF, our findings will contribute to supporting equity-
focused health policy recommendations for local health units and health care service providers.

8 
 
REFERENCES 
 
1. Office of Disease Prevention and Health Promotion. Social Determinants of Health - Healthy 
People 2030. Accessed July 17, 2025. https://odphp.health.gov/healthypeople/priority-
areas/social-determinants-health 
2. World Health Organization. Social determinants of health. 2025. Accessed July 17, 2025. 
https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/social-determinants-of-health 
3. National Collaborating Centre for Aboriginal Health. Access to Services as Social 
Determinants of First Nations, Inuit, and Metis Health. University of Northern British 
Columbia; 2011. Accessed April 7, 2019. https://www.ccnsa-nccah.ca/docs/determinants/FS-
AccessHealthServicesSDOH-EN.pdf 
4. Public Health Agency of Canada. Report - Inequalities in mental health, well-being and 
wellness in Canada | Public Health Infobase - Public Health Agency of Canada. September 10, 
2024. Accessed July 17, 2025. https://health-infobase.canada.ca/mental-
health/inequalities/report.html#fn15 
5. Public Health Agency of Canada. Key Health Inequalities in Canada: A National Portrait – 
Executive Summary. May 15, 2018. Accessed July 17, 2025. 
https://www.canada.ca/en/public-health/services/publications/science-research-data/key-
health-inequalities-canada-national-portrait-executive-summary.html 
6. Lim KL, Jacobs P, Ohinmaa A, Schopflocher D, Dewa CS. A new population-based measure 
of the economic burden of mental illness in Canada. Chronic Dis Can. 2008;28(3):92-98. 
7. Janssen I. Health care costs of physical inactivity in Canadian adults. Appl Physiol Nutr 
Metab. 2012;37(4):803-806. doi:10.1139/h2012-061 
8. Chaput JP, Janssen I, Lang JJ, Sampasa-Kanyinga H. Economic burden of excessive sedentary 
behaviour in Canada. Can J Public Health. 2023;114(2):165-174. doi:10.17269/s41997-022-
00729-2 
9. Flowers L, Houser A, Noel-Miller C, et al. Medicare Spends More on Socially Isolated Older 
Adults. AARP . doi:10.26419/ppi.00016.001 
10. Michaelson J, Jeffrey K, Abdallah S. The cost of loneliness to UK employers. New 
Economics Foundation. 2017. Accessed July 17, 2025. 
https://neweconomics.org/2017/02/cost-loneliness-uk-employers 
11. Meisters R, Westra D, Putrik P, Bosma H, Ruwaard D, Jansen M. Does Loneliness Have 
a Cost? A Population-Wide Study of the Association Between Loneliness and Healthcare 
Expenditure. Int J Public Health. 2021;66:581286. doi:10.3389/ijph.2021.581286 
12. Joshi A, Aldrich DP. Corralling a chimera: a critical review of the term social 
infrastructure. Sustainable and Resilient Infrastructure. 2025;10(3):284-294.

9 
 
13. Lee J, Aldrich DP, Kiyota E, Yasuhiro T, Sawada Y . Social capital building interventions 
and self-reported post-disaster recovery in Ofunato, Japan. Sci Rep. 2022;12(1):10274. 
doi:10.1038/s41598-022-14537-8 
14. Aldrich DP, Kyota E. Creating Community Resilience Through Elder-Led Physical and 
Social Infrastructure. Disaster Medicine and Public Health Preparedness. 2017;11(1):120-
126. doi:10.1017/dmp.2016.206 
15. Bryndin E, Bryndina I. Natural and spiritual aspects of health and social infrastructure of 
public health care on base of healthy lifestyle. Medical Open Journal Gerontology & 
Geriatrics. 2018;3(6):404-408. 
16. Marwell NP, McQuarrie M. People, Place, and System. The ANNALS of the American 
Academy of Political and Social Science. Published online April 5, 2013. 
doi:10.1177/0002716212474795 
17. Klinenberg E. Palaces for the People: How to Build a More Equal and United Society. 
Random House; 2018. 
18. Klinenberg E. Heat Wave: A Social Autopsy of Disaster in Chicago. University of 
Chicago press; 2002. 
19. Davern M, Gunn L, Whitzman C, et al. Using spatial measures to test a conceptual model 
of social infrastructure that supports health and wellbeing. Cities & Health. Published online 
April 6, 2017. Accessed July 17, 2025. 
https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/23748834.2018.1443620 
20. Collins H. Mermaids, knitted costumes and pink carbolic soap: making meaning and 
translating social space in community-led pools. Language and Intercultural Communication. 
Published online January 2, 2021. Accessed July 17, 2025. 
https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/14708477.2020.1833899 
21. Lauer S, Wong KLY , Yan MC. Social infrastructure, community organizations, and 
friendship formation: a scoping review. Community Development Journal. 2025;60(2):267-
285. doi:10.1093/cdj/bsae023 
22. Hollis H, Skropke C, Smith H, Harries R, Garling O. Social Infrastructure: International 
Comparative Review. Institute for Community Studies; 2023. Accessed July 17, 2025. 
https://eprints.icstudies.org.uk/id/eprint/414/1/Social_infrastructure_international_comparativ
e_review.pdf 
23. Enneking G, Custers G, Engbersen G. The rapid rise of social infrastructure: Mapping the 
concept through a systematic scoping review. Cities. 2025;158:105608. 
doi:10.1016/j.cities.2024.105608 
24. Waterloo Region Community Foundation. Social Infrastructure. 2025. Accessed August 
18, 2025. https://www.wrcf.ca/socialinfrastructure

10

11 
 
Other Stuff (From two page proposal) 
 
Dataset Information 
Discussed in group conversation: *Canadian Community Health Survey (2021) - CCHS | 
*Canadian Social Survey (2021) - CSS | *Canadian Census (2021) | *Survey on Mental Health 
and Stressful Events (2021) – SMHSE | Canadian Vital Statistics - Death database (2021) - 
CVSD 
*2021 datasets can be linked via postal codes 
Variables of Interest (Operationalizing the DVs) 
Bonding capital: various CSS, CCHS, and SMHSE items 
Dataset Variable Item/Details 
CSS 2021 
 
Sense of belonging to local 
community (SBL) - SBL_Q100 
How would you describe your sense of belonging to 
your local community? 
 
1: Very strong 
2: Somewhat strong 
3: Somewhat weak 
4: Very weak 
5: No opinion 
Trust in different groups of people (TIP) 
TIP_Q10 
... what is your level of trust in each of the following 
groups of people? 
People in your family 
CCHS 
2021 
Social provisions (SPS) - Question 
identifier:SPS_Q035 
I feel part of a group of people who share my 
attitudes and beliefs. 
SMHSE 
2021 
Healthy behaviours (BH) - BH_Q35 Are you currently doing any of the following 
activities to maintain or improve your health? 
(possibly dichotomize?) 
 
01: Communicating with friends or family 
02: Communicating with health professionals (e.g., 
counsellor or therapist) 
03: Communicating through social media 
04: Meditating or seeking spiritual guidance 
05: Exercising 
06: Participating in hobbies (e.g., gardening, 
journaling or crafts) 
07: Ensuring adequate sleep (e.g., avoiding screen 
time before sleep, avoiding caffeinated drinks or 
maintaining regular sleep cycle) 
08: Other 
09: None of the above 
PTS_Q35M – Stressful Events Keeping your worst event in mind, over the past 
month, how much have you been bothered by the 
following problems? 
 
Feeling distant or cut off from other people

12 
 
 
1: Not at all 
2: A little bit 
3: Moderately 
4: Quite a bit 
5: Extremely 
SPS_Q05G – Social Provisions Please indicate to what extent each statement 
describes your current relationships with other 
people. 
 
I feel part of a group of people who share my 
attitudes and beliefs 
 
1: Strongly agree 
2: Agree 
3: Disagree 
4: Strongly disagree 
SPS_Q05B Please indicate to what extent each statement 
describes your current relationships with other 
people. 
 
There are people who enjoy the same social 
activities I do 
 
1: Strongly agree 
2: Agree 
3: Disagree 
4: Strongly disagree 
 
Bridging capital: trust in different groups of people from CSS  
Dataset Variable Item/Details 
CSS 2021 
 
TIP_Q20 ... what is your level of trust in each of the following 
groups of people? 
People you work with 
TIP_Q21 ... what is your level of trust in each of the following 
groups of people? 
TIP_Q22 ... what is your level of trust in each of the following 
groups of people? 
People who speak a different language than you 
TIP_Q23 ... what is your level of trust in each of the following 
groups of people? 
People with a different religion than you 
TIP_Q24 ... what is your level of trust in each of the following 
groups of people? 
People with a different ethnic or cultural 
background than you 
TIP_Q25 ... what is your level of trust in each of the following 
groups of people? 
Strangers

13 
 
Trust in others, institutions, and government: trust in different groups of people AND/OR 
confidence in institutions from CSS 
Dataset Variable Item/Details 
CSS 2021 
 
Trust in different groups of people (TIP) 
TIP_Q10 
... what is your level of trust in each of the following 
groups of people? 
People in your family 
TIP_Q15 ... what is your level of trust in each of the following 
groups of people? 
People in your neighbourhood 
TIP_Q20 ... what is your level of trust in each of the following 
groups of people? 
People you work with 
TIP_Q21 ... what is your level of trust in each of the following 
groups of people? 
TIP_Q22 ... what is your level of trust in each of the following 
groups of people? 
People who speak a different language than you 
TIP_Q23 ... what is your level of trust in each of the following 
groups of people? 
People with a different religion than you 
TIP_Q24 ... what is your level of trust in each of the following 
groups of people? 
People with a different ethnic or cultural 
background than you 
TIP_Q25 ... what is your level of trust in each of the following 
groups of people? 
Strangers 
Confidence in institutions (CII) 
CII_Q10 
... How much confidence do you have in the 
following institutions? 
The police 
CII_Q15 ... How much confidence do you have in the 
following institutions? 
The justice system and courts 
CII_Q30 ... How much confidence do you have in the 
following institutions? 
The school system 
CII_Q40 ... How much confidence do you have in the 
following institutions? 
The Federal Parliament

14 
 
Size and strength of social network and connections: trust in neighbourhood people from CSS 
AND/OR number of connections from GSS 
Dataset Variable Item/Details 
CSS 2021 
 
Trust in neighbourhood people (TNP) 
 
How many people do you trust in your 
neighbourhood? 
1: Most of the people 
2: Many of the people 
3: A few of the people 
4: Nobody 
 the total number of acquaintances a person has. 
This number excludes relatives and close friends. 
 
 
Shared values: shared values from CSS 
Dataset Variable Item/Details 
CSS 2021 
 
Shared values (SVR) 
SVR_Q01 
... To what extent do you personally agree with the 
following values? 
Human rights 
SVR_Q02 ... To what extent do you personally agree with the 
following values? 
Respect for the law 
SVR_Q03 ... To what extent do you personally agree with the 
following values? 
Gender equality 
SVR_Q04 ... To what extent do you personally agree with the 
following values? 
English and French as Canada's official languages 
SVR_Q05 ... To what extent do you personally agree with the 
following values? 
Ethnic and cultural diversity 
SVR_Q06 ... To what extent do you personally agree with the 
following values? 
Respect for Indigenous (First Nations, Métis or Inuit) 
culture 
 
Perceived social support and belonging: social provisions scale from CCHS AND/OR sense of 
belonging from CSS 
Dataset Variable Item/Details 
CCHS 
2021 
 
Social provisions (SPS) - Question 
identifier:SPS_Q015 
I have close relationships that provide me with a 
sense of emotional security and wellbeing. 
Social provisions (SPS) - Question 
identifier:SPS_Q020 
There is someone I could talk to about important 
decisions in my life. 
Social provisions (SPS) - Question 
identifier:SPS_Q025 
I have relationships where my competence and skill 
are recognized.

15 
 
Social provisions (SPS) - Question 
identifier:SPS_Q035 
I feel part of a group of people who share my 
attitudes and beliefs. 
Social provisions (SPS) - Question 
identifier:SPS_Q050 
There are people I can count on in an emergency. 
Work family balance (WLB) - Question 
identifier:WLB_Q75 
My involvement in my family helps me acquire skills 
and this helps me be a better worker. 
Work family balance (WLB) - Question 
identifier:WLB_Q80 
My involvement in my family puts me in a good 
mood and this helps me be a better worker. 
Work family balance (WLB) - Question 
identifier:WLB_Q85 
My involvement in my family encourages me to use 
my work time in a focused manner and this helps 
me be a better worker. 
CSS 2021 
 
Sense of belonging (SBL) - Question 
identifier:SBL_Q100 
How would you describe your sense of belonging to 
your local community? 
Sense of belonging (SBL) - Question 
identifier:SBL_Q400 
How would you describe your sense of belonging to 
Canada? 
Trust in people (PCT) - Question 
identifier:PCT_Q10 
Generally speaking, would you say that most people 
can be trusted or that you cannot be too careful in 
dealing with people? 
 
Variables of Interest (Operationalizing the IVs*) 
Family demographics: age, gender, ethnicity, household income, job status, educational 
attainment, marital status all available in the 2021 Census.