Mitacs BSI Application  
MITACS-BSI-CED-LAP Link-WS26 | Application form 
Modified: November 28, 2025 (sgbrown) 
Page 1 of 22 
 
Mitacs BSI Application Template 
Template version: 2025-11-26 
 
 
Upon submitting your application, you are agreeing that Mitacs can post the title of your project, 
the public project overview, the name of the partner organization (if applicable), the name of the 
intern, the name of the academic supervisor, and the involved academic institution 
on www.mitacs.ca/en/projects and this information may be used by Mitacs to publicize its 
programs. Mitacs Privacy Policy can be found at www.mitacs.ca/en/privacy-policy. 
 
 
 
Section 1: Project Overview 
 
P-1.1 Title (255 characters max)  
Note: This can be changed later 
 
LAP Link: Optimizing the Leisure Access Program Application Process 
 
 
P-1.2 Size of application 
☒   Small (1-3 internships) 
Expert review should take no more than 6 weeks for the majority of proposals. 
Please plan for additional review time should revisions be requested. Your project 
start date will only be confirmed once the proposal is approved, intern(s) identified, 
and partner organization funds received at Mitacs.  
☐   Medium (6-10 internships)  
Expert review should take no more than 8 weeks for the majority of proposals. 
Please plan for additional review time should revisions be requested. Your project 
start date will only be confirmed once the proposal is approved, intern(s) identified, 
and partner organization funds received at Mitacs. 
 
 
P-1.3 Public Project Overview (100-200 words) 
Using simplified language, please provide a general one-paragraph description of the proposed 
project including the expected benefit to the partner organization. 
 
The Leisure Access Program (LAP) supports low-income Edmontonians by providing access to 
recreation and transit services. Currently, LAP program staff manually process over 44,000 
applications every year to verify income and eligibility. This manual process has created a large and 
growing backlog, meaning people are waiting too long to receive the support they need.  The “Lap 
Link” project will automate much of this review process by developing intelligent systems that can 
automatically verify income and check eligibility, similar to how online systems can instantly verify 
information. By significantly reducing the amount of manual work required, this solution will help 
the City of Edmonton process new applications and renewals much more efficiently, clear the

Mitacs BSI Application  
MITACS-BSI-CED-LAP Link-WS26 | Application form 
Modified: November 28, 2025 (sgbrown) 
Page 2 of 22 
 
existing backlog, and ensure that eligible residents can access essential recreation and transit 
services without unnecessary delays, while also reducing the workload pressure on staff. 
 
 
P-1.4 Academic discipline 
Please highlight the academic discipline (1 only) that most closely aligns with the project.  
 
☐   Business  
☒   Computer Science 
☐   Earth Science 
☐   Engineering 
☐   Life Science 
☐   Mathematical Science 
☐   Physical Science 
☐   Social Science, Arts and Humanities 
 
 
P-1.5 Keywords to identify reviewers 
Please specify five to ten keywords to help identify proper reviewers and to accelerate the review 
process. Please provide both technically and/or conceptually related (50%) and discipline related 
keywords (50%). 
 
Conceptually/technically-related 
keywords (50%) Discipline-related keywords (50%) 
• Workflow optimization 
• Automated application processing 
• Backlog reduction 
• Intelligent systems 
• Digital transformation 
• Data Science 
• Machine Learning 
• Operations Research 
• Human Services 
• Public Policy

Mitacs BSI Application  
MITACS-BSI-CED-LAP Link-WS26 | Application form 
Modified: November 28, 2025 (sgbrown) 
Page 3 of 22 
 
Section 2: Academic Supervisor details 
 
P-2.1a Academic Supervisor details 
Please complete the following table for each academic supervisor included on the project (copy the 
table as necessary). 
 
ACADEMIC SUPERVISOR 
FULL NAME 
First name: Leia 
Last name: Minaker 
Email: lminaker@uwaterloo.ca 
Re-type email: lminaker@uwaterloo.ca 
Contact phone: 519-888-4567 
Extension: 45615 
Academic institution: University of Waterloo 
Department: School of Planning 
Address: 200 University Avenue West 
City: Waterloo 
Province: Ontario 
Country: Canada 
Postal code: N2L 3G1 
 
 
P-2.1b  Academic Supervisor Policy on Sensitive Technology Research and Affiliations of 
Concern Declaration 
 
1. Are you currently affiliated with, or in receipt of funding or in-kind support from any of the 
listed Named Research Organizations (NROs)? 
☐  Yes  ☒ No 
 
Any applicant who is currently affiliated with, or in receipt of funding or in-kind 
support from one or more of the institutions on the list of NROs is not eligible to 
participate in a Mitacs-funded project involving research that aims to advance 
a Sensitive Technology Research Area (STRA). Mitacs will also screen a sample of 
applications, selected at its sole discretion, and validate the accuracy of the 
completed declarations. Mitacs reserves the right to decline funding, at any point, 
for a project that advances a sensitive technology research area because of 
affiliations of concern. 
 
 
P-2.1c Academic supervisor CV 
The academic supervisor must upload a CV/resume for any application that will involve 6 or more 
internships. Please note by uploading your Resume/CV you are granting all participants in this 
application and Mitacs staff access to this document.

Mitacs BSI Application  
MITACS-BSI-CED-LAP Link-WS26 | Application form 
Modified: November 28, 2025 (sgbrown) 
Page 4 of 22 
 
Not required for this application. 
 
 
 
Section 3: Partner Organization Information 
 
P-3.1 Organizational Profile 
Please complete the following table for each partner organization included on the project (copy the 
table as necessary) 
 
PARTNER ORGANIZATION 
Organization Name (Primary contact) 
Partner Contact Information 
First name: Zehra Last name: Shah 
Email: zehra.shah@edmonton.ca Re-type email: zehra.shah@edmonton.ca 
Department: Data Science and Research 
Contact phone: MISSING Extension: MISSING 
Business Information 
Legal Organization 
Name: 
City of Edmonton 
Organization URL: www.edmonton.ca 
Industry code 
(NAICS): 
913: Local, municipal and regional public administration 
Legal Status:  
(For Canadian 
Organizations only) 
☐ For Profit Canadian Corporation 
☐   Not for Profit Canadian Corporation 
☐   Crown Corporation 
☒   Municipality 
Organization Size: 
(Number of 
employees in 
Canada) 
☐ 1 – 49 
☐   50 – 99 
☐ 100 – 499 
☐  500 – 999 
☒ 1000+ 
Address: 1 Sir Winston Churchill Square 
City: Edmonton Province: AB 
Country: Canada Postal code: T5J 2R7 
Organizational Structure and Activities 
Is the organization 
incorporated? 
☒ Yes 
☐ No 
 
If yes, please include the date (YYYY/MM/DD) of 
incorporation: 
1904-10-06 
Is the organization a 
parent company? 
☐ Yes 
☒ No 
 
If yes, please describe (e.g., main subsidiaries, name of 
the parent company/holding company, city and country 
where the headquarters of the parent company/holding 
company are located):  
n/a

Mitacs BSI Application  
MITACS-BSI-CED-LAP Link-WS26 | Application form 
Modified: November 28, 2025 (sgbrown) 
Page 5 of 22 
 
PARTNER ORGANIZATION 
Organization Name (Primary contact) 
Is the organization a 
subsidiary company? 
☐ Yes 
☒ No 
If yes, please describe (e.g., main subsidiaries, name of 
the parent company/holding company, city and country 
where the headquarters of the parent company/holding 
company are located):  
n/a 
Does the 
organization have an 
R&D department in 
Canada? 
☐ Yes 
☒ No 
 
If yes, what is the exact number of research and 
development (R&D) staff in Canada? 
n/a 
 
If no, is R&D conducted on the organization’s premises in 
Canada? 
No 
Is this the first time 
the partner has 
collaborated with the 
academic 
institution? 
☐ Yes 
☒ No 
 
Funds Declaration 
Have the funds 
committed by the 
Organization been 
leveraged against 
other federal or 
provincial programs? 
☐ Yes 
☐ No 
 
If yes, Please contact your Mitacs Advisor before you 
proceed with the application. 
 
If yes, please identify the Program Name(s): 
RESPONSE 
 
If yes, please indicate the Total Program(s) Contribution: 
RESPONSE 
Invoicing Information 
How often will the 
partner organization 
be invoiced? 
☐ Every 4 months 
☐ Annually 
☒ Single payment 
Net invoice term 
(Days >=30) 
30 days 
Accounts payable 
attention to: 
 
 First name: Zehra 
 Last name:
  
Shah 
 Email: 
  
zehra.shah@edmonton.ca 
 Phone: 
  
780-508-9527 
 Extension:  
Please describe any 
applicable invoice 
requirements: 
n/a

Mitacs BSI Application  
MITACS-BSI-CED-LAP Link-WS26 | Application form 
Modified: November 28, 2025 (sgbrown) 
Page 6 of 22 
 
Section 4: Project details 
 
4.1  PROJECT DESCRIPTION 
 
A-4.1a Background (What problem needs to be solved?) 
Provide an overview and describe the main activities of the partner organization. Explain the 
innovation challenge or improvement priority that the partner needs to solve. Specify how this 
project will help the partner organization address those challenges in a way that goes beyond day-
to-day business operations/activities. Describe what kind of expertise is required to solve the 
problem. 
 
Overview of partner organization  
The City of Edmonton’s Data Science and Research Team (DSRT) acts as a central problem-solving 
hub, collaborating with diverse internal municipal teams by accepting projects based on a 
structured evaluation process. It is dedicated to leveraging data and technology to enhance 
municipal services and improve quality of life for residents. This team leads initiatives in open data, 
artificial intelligence and predictive analytics, and collaborates with various stakeholders to drive 
innovation and transparency. Their work includes developing predictive models for emergency 
events, optimizing urban planning through data-driven insights, and fostering a culture of open 
government through accessible data portals.  
 
The team acts as a central problem-solving hub, collaborating with diverse internal municipal 
teams by accepting projects based on a structured evaluation process. This process scores 
requests against the City’s Corporate Business Plan and their potential to generate value 
(make/save money, reduce risk, save operationalizing the results, projects are prioritized and 
initiated. 
 
The DSRT emphasizes strong relationships, a well-defined problem, willing stakeholders, clarity on 
expected changes, and comfort with unpredictable results as critical for project success, all while 
maintaining a strong focus on data privacy and ethics. 
 
 
Current challenge 
The City of Edmonton’s Leisure Access Program (LAP) is experiencing a critical capacity crisis in its 
application processing system. The program, which provides essential recreation and transit 
services to low-income Edmontonians, is unable to keep pace with a growing demand using its 
current manual review processes. This represents a fundamental equity challenge in service 
delivery that requires urgent innovation to be solved. 
 
The core challenge lies in the highly inefficient and time-consuming nature of manually verifying 
various eligibility requirements (e.g, income verification) which currently demands considerable 
human resources for each application. This has resulted in significant processing delays, a 
substantial and growing backlog, and has extended wait times for eligible low-income 
Edmontonians who need to access essential recreation and transit services. The current process 
simply cannot scale with the dramatic increase in demand, and automation efforts are needed to 
manage demand and ensure timely service delivery.

Mitacs BSI Application  
MITACS-BSI-CED-LAP Link-WS26 | Application form 
Modified: November 28, 2025 (sgbrown) 
Page 7 of 22 
 
 
Impact 
This project represents a fundamental transformation in how the Leisure Access Program 
operates, moving far beyond incremental improvements to daily workflows. By partnering with the 
Data Science and Research team to implement intelligent automation systems, the LAP Link will 
support the shift from a reactive, manual processing model to a proactive, data-driven approach 
that fundamentally reimagines service delivery. 
 
The implementation of an automated income verification and eligibility checking system will 
enable LAP to scale sustainably with growing demand—something impossible under current 
operational constraints. Rather than simply adding more staff to handle volume increases (a 
traditional operational response), this solution builds organizational capacity through 
technological innovation, creating a scalable infrastructure that can accommodate future growth 
without proportional increases in resources. 
 
The project also creates opportunities for future enhancements that could transform other city 
services. The data science infrastructure and methodologies developed through LAP Link could be 
adapted to streamline other eligibility-based programs, creating a replicable model for modernizing 
social service delivery across the City of Edmonton. This represents an investment in 
organizational capacity that delivers value far beyond the immediate application processing 
challenge. 
 
 
Expertise required to solve the problem 
Specialized expertise required to develop this solution includes (but is not limited to): 
• Programming and Databases: Experience with programming languages and relational 
databases, particularly SQL. 
• Data Analysis and Visualization: Proficiency in data analysis and visualization tools (e.g., 
R or Python). 
• Computer Vision: Experience with Optical Character Recognition (OCR) tools and 
techniques for extracting information from documents is an asset. 
 
 
A-4.1b Objectives and Approach (How will the problem be solved?) 
State the objectives for this project and explain how you plan to accomplish them. Enough detail 
should be provided so that it is clear whether the described approach is appropriate to achieve 
each objective. For projects with more than one intern, clearly explain which objective(s) each 
intern will work on. 
 
Objectives 
The primary objective of the LAP Link project is: 
 
1. To develop and implement an intelligent automation system that significantly reduces 
reliance on manual review for LAP applications (new and renewals), with particular focus

Mitacs BSI Application  
MITACS-BSI-CED-LAP Link-WS26 | Application form 
Modified: November 28, 2025 (sgbrown) 
Page 8 of 22 
 
on income verification and other eligibility checks while maintaining accuracy and fairness 
in eligibility determinations. 
 
Plan to accomplish objectives 
The primary objectives of the LAP Link project are:  
• To improve current review process and reduce time for processing each form; and   
• To reduce workload from 311 team.   
  
This process begins with understanding the current workflow, specifically the steps from paper 
submission to sending the result to the applicant. The next stage involves implementing an OCR 
solution to extract information from documents and automatically cross-check this information 
against existing data sources. The final step is to review and verify the new automated process with 
the 311 teams. 
 
 
Indicators of success 
Success may be measured through indicators such as: 
• Reduction in average processing time for renewals and new applications 
• Decrease in volume of backlog over the implementation period 
• Accuracy of automated reviews/decisions 
• Staff satisfaction with the system 
• Wait-times for access to essential recreation and transit services for eligible low-income 
Edmontonians 
 
 
A-4.1c Timeline (Who will solve the problem and how much effort will be required?) 
Insert a timeline showing which task(s) will be performed when, and by which intern in order to 
achieve the objectives stated above (consider breaking this down by week for shorter projects or by 
month for longer projects via a Gantt chart). Ensure there are no gaps in the timeline and that the 
effort required to complete each task matches the amount of time allocated for each intern. 
 
The project will proceed as follows: 
 
TASK PROJECT MONTHS RESPONSIBLE 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
Coordinate business activities and 
gather project requirements 
        
Mitacs intern 
Research current workflow and 
design system for automation 
        Mitacs intern 
 
Implement OCR system and 
automation of application review 
        
Mitacs intern

Mitacs BSI Application  
MITACS-BSI-CED-LAP Link-WS26 | Application form 
Modified: November 28, 2025 (sgbrown) 
Page 9 of 22 
 
Controlled Testing         Mitacs intern 
 
Deploy developed solution         Mitacs intern 
 
Operationalize the developed 
system/features. 
        
311 Team 
Iterative testing -- Gather feedback 
and implement necessary 
revisions.   
        Mitacs intern 
 
Create comprehensive 
documentation for all new 
features and improvements. 
        Mitacs intern 
 
 
 
A-4.1d Deliverables (What does success look like?) 
List the deliverables or tangible results you expect from the project and identify which intern is 
responsible for it. For example, will you develop a new patent/prototype/product/service, business 
model, business process, or will you access new markets? Will the intern be expected to produce a 
report, evaluation, presentation, etc.? 
 
Deliverables for this project include (but are not limited to):  
 
• Development of new products or services: The project will deliver an intelligent 
automation system that transforms LAP application processing from a manual, labor-
intensive service into a streamlined, data-driven operation capable of automatically 
verifying income eligibility and processing applications at scale. This new service 
infrastructure will incorporate machine learning algorithms, automated document 
processing capabilities, and integrated decision-making systems that represent a 
fundamental advancement in how the City of Edmonton delivers equitable access to 
recreation and transit programs for low-income residents. 
 
• Comprehensive reports and presentations for the partner organization: These will 
document methodologies, findings, and recommendations related to automated 
application processing and eligibility verification while effectively communicating technical 
developments, analytical results, and practical implications for program efficiency and 
service delivery improvements. 
 
 
 
A-4.2  INTERNSHIP BENEFITS

Mitacs BSI Application  
MITACS-BSI-CED-LAP Link-WS26 | Application form 
Modified: November 28, 2025 (sgbrown) 
Page 10 of 22 
 
A-4.2a Benefits and Impacts to Canada 
If this project potentially impacts broader challenges that society or the industry  faces, please 
describe how the project will help address these challenges. Why are these contributions important? 
 
This project addresses several critical challenges that extend far beyond the LAP, touching on 
fundamental issues in public service delivery, equity, and the responsible application of 
automation to social programs. 
 
• Scaling Social Services in an Era of Growing Demand: Across Canada and globally, social 
service programs face mounting pressure as demand increases while resources remain 
constrained. By developing a replicable model for automating verification processes, this 
project contributes a practical blueprint that other organizations can adapt to their own 
contexts, helping the broader public sector modernize service delivery while maintaining 
accessibility and fairness. 
 
• Ensuring Equitable Access to Essential Services: Processing delays in eligibility-based 
programs disproportionately impact vulnerable populations who depend on timely access 
to services. By reducing processing times and eliminating backlogs, this project addresses 
the broader societal challenge of ensuring that administrative processes don't become 
barriers to equity, offering an approach that other organizations can use to ensure their 
modernization efforts enhance rather than hinder equitable access. 
 
• Responsible AI Implementation in Public Services : As governments increasingly explore 
automation and artificial intelligence, there's urgent need for models that demonstrate how 
these technologies can be deployed responsibly in contexts affecting vulnerable 
populations. This project contributes to the broader conversation about ethical AI by 
prioritizing accuracy, fairness, transparency, and human oversight—establishing important 
precedents for how public sector organizations can harness data science while maintaining 
accountability and trust. 
 
• Building Organizational Capacity for Digital Transformation: Many public sector 
organizations struggle to move beyond pilot projects to achieve meaningful digital 
transformation. By establishing infrastructure for continuous improvement and future 
enhancement, this project demonstrates how to build sustainable data science capabilities 
within government operations that persist beyond individual projects or funding cycles. 
 
These contributions are important because they demonstrate that technology can enhance the 
human elements of social service delivery, showing how data science can be applied responsibly to 
improve outcomes for vulnerable populations. As municipalities across Canada face similar 
pressures of growing demand and limited resources, the methodologies and lessons learned from 
this project can accelerate innovation elsewhere, contributing to a shared knowledge base that 
strengthens the entire public sector's capacity to serve citizens effectively and equitably while 
addressing the fundamental question of how to ensure timely access to essential services 
regardless of demand volume.

Mitacs BSI Application  
MITACS-BSI-CED-LAP Link-WS26 | Application form 
Modified: November 28, 2025 (sgbrown) 
Page 11 of 22 
 
A-4.2b Benefits to the Intern(s) 
Explain how participating in this project aligns with the academic studies of the intern(s). How is 
participating in the project expected to benefit  their future career(s)? For example, will they expand  
their professional network, gain knowledge in a business context, or develop  skills in problem -
solving, communication, project management, creative thinking, etc.? 
 
By participating in this project, the intern will: 
 
• Apply their academic expertise to real-world problems to systematically enhance the City of 
Edmonton's LAP application processing system, ultimately contributing to the creation of 
an intelligent automation infrastructure that ensures timely access to essential recreation 
and transit services for low-income Edmontonians; 
• Use and develop creative problem-solving skills by thinking on their feet and solving 
problems in real time; 
• Foster management, leadership, and communication abilities by working with an 
experienced team and ensuring the end product delivers a functional automated 
verification system that seamlessly meets the needs of both citizens and municipal staff for 
efficient, accurate, and equitable processing of LAP applications; 
• An intern leading a data science project for the City of Edmonton will gain hands-on 
experience applying theoretical concepts—such as machine learning, statistical modeling, 
and programming—to complex municipal challenges. This opportunity will expand their 
professional network within a leading municipal data science team, deepen understanding 
of public sector operations, and enhance problem-solving skills by addressing novel issues; 
and  
• build skills in project management, stakeholder communication, ethical data practices, 
and the ability to operationalize data science solutions from concept to deployment.  
 
A-4.3 INTERNSHIP ENVIRONMENT 
 
A-4.3a Description of the Academic Internship Environment 
a. Please describe the nature of academic supervision during the internship period. Explain 
the type and frequency of interactions (e.g., meetings, phone calls, etc.) between the 
intern and academic supervisor. 
b. Will the project make use of the resources and/or facilities of the academic institution? If so, 
please describe.  
 
Academic internship Environment 
The Future Cities Institute (FCI), founded by CAIVAN is committed to fostering healthy, prosperous 
cities and communities in Canada and beyond through interdisciplinary partnerships, action-
oriented research, and data-informed decision-making. The Data Science and Research Team at 
the City of Edmonton is one of FCI’s core partners due to their focus on developing data-driven 
solutions to municipal challenges and their commitment to the democratization of tools and 
resources. 
 
Nature of academic supervision

Mitacs BSI Application  
MITACS-BSI-CED-LAP Link-WS26 | Application form 
Modified: November 28, 2025 (sgbrown) 
Page 12 of 22 
 
The intern will meet virtually with Dr. Leia Minaker (Director, Future Cities Institute, Faculty of 
Environment) at least once a month to ensure ongoing alignment with the goals and objectives of 
the Future Cities Institute and to discuss progress towards knowledge mobilization outcomes.  
 
Use of UWaterloo resources and/or facilities 
The initial development, implementation and evaluation of the solution will use very few UWaterloo 
resources and/or facilities since the intern is physically located in Edmonton. However, the FCI staff 
team (primarily Research Coordinator and Communications Officer) will be engaged throughout 
the internship to support knowledge mobilization and/or communication activities. 
 
 
A-4.3b Description of the Partner Internship Environment 
a. Please state the nature of the partner interaction:     ☒  Onsite     ☐  Virtual     ☐  Hybrid 
b. Describe the working environment at the partner organization and the type and frequency of 
interactions between the intern(s) and employees. For example, what resources, 
facilities/equipment, and specialized training will the intern(s) have access to? If the 
intern(s) will work virtually, how will they be exposed to the activities and culture of the 
partner organization?  
 
Partner Internship Environment 
The intern will immerse themselves in the Data Science and Research team's dynamic, pragmatic, 
and highly collaborative environment at the City of Edmonton. Interactions will be frequent and 
direct, involving continuous engagement with senior data scientists for mentorship and active 
collaboration with partner teams across various city departments, from project intake through 
operationalization, to define problems and ensure solutions meet real-world needs. 
  
Access to resources, facilities/equipment and specialized training 
For resources, the intern will access state-of-the-art centralized infrastructure, including Google 
Cloud Platform services (BigQuery, Dataflow, Dataproc, GPU support) and GitLab for project 
management and version control. Specialized training will be hands-on, provided through direct 
guidance from experienced public sector data scientists, ensuring practical skill development. 
 
Organizational culture 
Cultural exposure will stem from direct team integration, participating in the team's problem-
solving ethos, and gaining deep institutional knowledge by observing and contributing to the 
operational realities and diverse activities of the partner organizations they support. 
 
 
A-4.4  PAST/OTHER MITACS PROJECTS 
Is this application related to, or a continuation of, any previous or current Mitacs projects?      
☐  Yes      
☒  No 
 
If Yes, provide specifics about the relationship(s), including relevant project IT#(s). If the current 
project is a continuation of prior work, briefly describe how it meaningfully furthers what has been 
previously achieved.

Mitacs BSI Application  
MITACS-BSI-CED-LAP Link-WS26 | Application form 
Modified: November 28, 2025 (sgbrown) 
Page 13 of 22 
 
 
n/a 
 
 
A-4.5  ENGAGEMENT WITH INDIGENOUS COMMUNITIES OR PARTNERS (IF APPLICABLE) 
Projects that involve or impact Indigenous communities must comply with the Mitacs Indigenous 
Research Policy. Describe (1) Indigenous community support for the project, and their role in 
shaping its objectives/approach, (2) plans for Indigenous community access, use, and governance 
of resulting knowledge/data, and (3) the team background in Indigenous research, including 
planned training/mentorship the intern(s) will receive to address deficits in experience. 
You may also submit 1-2 letter(s) of support from Indigenous Elders who are members of the partner 
community/communities and possess the authority to speak on community interests.    
 
n/a 
 
 
A-4.6  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (IF APPLICABLE) 
 
Explain how this project supports the creation and/or ownership of IP for the partner organization. 
If the project provides education or training about IP for any of the participants, explain here.  
 
Any intellectual property created by a Placement Student during their participation in the Program or 
performance of the Work will be the exclusive property of the City of Edmonton (the “Intellectual 
Property).  
 
The City of Edmonton may, at its discretion, provide advance written consent to a Placement Student 
for their use of the Intellectual Property for non-commercial purposes. 
 
The City of Edmonton also agrees to facilitate the reasonable use of the Intellectual Property by the 
University of Waterloo for academic purposes related to the administration of a Placement Student’s 
education, where applicable. 
 
Subject to the protection of any confidential information of the City of Edmonton or information 
otherwise protected under applicable legislation, including the Freedom of Information and 
Protection of Privacy Act (RSA 2000, c F -25), as amended, this reaso nable use by the University of 
Waterloo will include posting each Placement Student’s final reports and presentations related to 
the Work on the University’s website. 
 
 
A-4.7  REFERENCES / SOURCES (IF APPLICABLE) 
 
List any references you have cited in your proposal.  
 
n/a

Mitacs BSI Application  
MITACS-BSI-CED-LAP Link-WS26 | Application form 
Modified: November 28, 2025 (sgbrown) 
Page 14 of 22

Mitacs BSI Application  
MITACS-BSI-CED-LAP Link-WS26 | Application form 
Modified: November 28, 2025 (sgbrown) 
Page 15 of 22 
 
Section 5: Internship Budget and Schedule 
 
P-5.1  SUMMARY OF INTERNSHIPS 
 
Please select only one type of internship option per application from the list below. If you want to 
apply for internships of a different type, you will need to create a separate application. Each of your 
applications can include up to 10 internships of the same type. If you select an internship option 
with project costs, you must include a description of how these fundings will be used in your project 
proposal. 
 
☐  Business Strategy Internship (BSI) Standard Funding:  
Each BSI internship unit is valued at $10,000 and the partner organization’s financial 
contribution starts at $5,000 per unit. Each intern receives a minimum of $10,000 
stipend per unit 
 
☒  Business Strategy Internship (BSI) Standard Funding plus Project Costs:  
Each BSI internship unit is valued at $15,000 and the partner organization’s financial 
contribution starts at $7,500 per unit. Each intern receives a minimum $10,000 
stipend per unit. The additional $5,000 in funds can be used to pay for eligible 
project costs or can be used to top-up the intern stipend to $15,000. 
 
☐  Business Strategy Internship (BSI) - Indigenous Pathways Reduced Cost 10K:    
Projects with Indigenous participants are eligible for a reduced partner contribution. 
Each BSI internship unit is valued at $10,000 and the partner organization’s financial 
contribution starts at $2,500 per unit. Each intern receives a minimum $10,000 
stipend per unit. 
 
☐  Business Strategy Internship (BSI) - Indigenous Pathways Reduced Cost 15K:    
Projects with Indigenous participants are eligible for a reduced partner contribution. 
Each BSI internship unit is valued at $15,000 and the partner organization’s financial 
contribution starts at $3,750 per unit. Each intern receives a minimum $10,000 
stipend per unit. The additional $5,000 in funds can be used to pay for eligible 
project costs or can be used to top-up the intern stipend to $15,000. 
 
 
P-5.2   INTERNSHIP DETAILS 
 
P-5.2a  Intern Name 
* NOTE: An intern can be named (if known) or TBD 
TBD 
 
 
P-5.2b  Degree Program During Internship 
NOTE: A recent graduate is an individual who, at the start of the internship, graduated less than 2 
years ago. “Other University Program” should be used for an individual who is enrolled at a

Mitacs BSI Application  
MITACS-BSI-CED-LAP Link-WS26 | Application form 
Modified: November 28, 2025 (sgbrown) 
Page 16 of 22 
 
Canadian university in a non-degree program (e.g., diploma, certificate). “Recent Graduate (Other 
University Program)” should be used for an individual who, at the start of the internship, graduated 
less than 2 years ago from a non-degree program (e.g., diploma, certificate). 
 
☐  College 
☒  Bachelors 
☐  Masters 
☐  PhD 
☐  PDF 
☐  Recent Grad – College 
☐  Recent Grad - Bachelors 
 
P-5.2c  Internship timing  
 
a. Start date: January 5, 2026  
b. Duration (months): 8 
c. # of Consecutive Internships With Same Stipend (see * below): 2  
d. End date: This auto-generates in the system based on the start date and the duration of the 
internship 
 
* NOTE: ‘Consecutive internships' refers to sequential internships performed by a 
specific intern without breaks (gaps) in between each. To create a break between 
internships, create a new row for that specific intern. To enable each internship for a 
given intern to have a different stipend value from the other internships for the same 
intern, please create a new row for that specific intern. 'Same stipend' refers to 
every internship for that specific intern being assigned the same stipend value. Tip: 
Use the Duplicate function in the Actions menu to copy internships that are similar 
then make simple edits (such as modifying the stipend value, internship length, or 
add a new intern with the same stipend, duration and sequence as previous 
additions) as outlined above. 
 
  
P-5.3  ACADEMIC SUPERVISORS 
 
P-5.3a  Participant details  
 
This information will be auto-generated from the “Participants” tab. 
 
P-5.3b  Partner organizations 
The total minimum required organization contributions are listed in section P-3.1 above. This 
contribution can be distributed across multiple organizations. 
 
a. Please note that the financial contribution of organizations is subject to applicable Goods 
and Services Tax (GST), Harmonized Sales Tax (HST) and/or Quebec Sales Tax (QST) 
(Collectively the value added tax or VAT).

Mitacs BSI Application  
MITACS-BSI-CED-LAP Link-WS26 | Application form 
Modified: November 28, 2025 (sgbrown) 
Page 17 of 22 
 
b. Partner organizations can contribute additional funding to the project but Mitacs will not 
provide any additional matching funding outside of the standard awards.  
c. Additional partner contributions are only allowed with academic institution approval.  
d. Any additional partner funding must be shown in the proposal/budget and the anticipated 
use of these funds must be explained so that the academic institution can clearly see and 
approve the planned budget when they sign-off on the proposal (e.g. will the extra funds be 
used for stipend top-up, specialized equipment, etc.?).  
e. Any additional funds associated with a specific internship must be received by Mitacs at the 
same time as the normal partner contribution.  
f. The funds will be added to the award and forwarded to the academic institution to be paid 
out to the intern. 
 
PARTNER NAME IS A PARTICIPANT OF THIS 
INTERNSHIP (See * below) 
AMOUNT PER INTERNSHIP 
(See ** below) 
Partner A Auto-generated based on 
“Participants” tab 
$7,500 
City of Edmonton Yes $15,000 
 
* Make sure each participant has been entered in the “Participants” tab. 
** Note this amount does not include the tax component 
 
 
P-5.4c  Stipends and Project Expenses: 
a. Partner organizations can contribute additional funding to the project but Mitacs will not 
provide any additional matching funding outside of the standard awards.  
b. Additional partner contributions are only allowed with academic institution approval.  
c. Any additional partner funding must be shown in the proposal/budget and the anticipated 
use of these funds must also be shown so that the academic institution can clearly see and 
approve the planned budget when they sign-off on the proposal.  
d. Any additional funding associated with a specific internship must be received by Mitacs at 
the same time as the normal partner contribution.  
e. The funds will be added to the award and forwarded to the academic institution to be paid 
out to the intern.  
f. A minimum of $10,000 per internship must be use for intern stipend. Any additional funding 
the partner organization provides will be allocated to the intern stipend amount. 
 
 
BUDGET ITEM AMOUNT 
Stipend (must be at least 10,000) $20,000 
Project Expenses (usually $5,000) $10,000 
Total $30,000

Mitacs BSI Application  
MITACS-BSI-CED-LAP Link-WS26 | Application form 
Modified: November 28, 2025 (sgbrown) 
Page 18 of 22 
 
P-5.4d  Details of project expenses. 
If your internship includes project expenses, you must enter details of these project expenses in the 
space provided. For example, if you have two four-month internships listed above, please include 
what expenses will be required for each of these two units. 
 
The project expenses for the 2 IU included in this application will be used to top-up the intern’s 
stipend.

Mitacs BSI Application  
MITACS-BSI-CED-LAP Link-WS26 | Application form 
Modified: November 28, 2025 (sgbrown) 
Page 19 of 22 
 
Section 6: Declarations 
 
6.1  DECLARATIONS FROM PORTAL 
P-6.1 Answer the following questions: 
a. Will the intern conduct any of the proposed project activities outside of the academic 
institution or partner premises? 
 ☐  Yes  ☒  No 
 
b. Does the project involve: 
 
a. Human participants whose data, or responses to interventions, stimuli, or 
questions by the intern, are relevant to completing the work? 
  ☐  Yes  ☒  No 
 
b. Secondary use of human data or health information (even if anonymized)? 
 ☒  Yes  ☐  No 
  
c. Human biological materials, as well as human embryos, fetuses, fetal tissue, 
reproductive materials, and stem cells? This applies to materials derived from living 
and deceased individuals 
  ☐  Yes  ☒  No 
 
d. Secondary use of biological materials (even if anonymized)? 
 ☐  Yes  ☒  No 
 
If Yes was checked for any of the questions above, applicants must contact the ethics 
offices at all participating academic institutions to determine whether ethics clearance is 
required. This includes primary/secondary use of human data/biological materials owned 
by the partner. 
 
c. Will the proposed project require the use of laboratory animals, and/or potentially impact 
the well-being of wild/domesticated animals?  
 ☐  Yes  ☒  No 
 
If yes, applicants must contact the animal care committees at all participating academic 
institutions to determine whether any certifications/authorizations are required. 
 
d. Will the proposed project require the interns to handle or be exposed to biohazards? 
 ☐  Yes  ☒  No 
 
If yes, please check all that apply: 
e. Biohazards (e.g., viruses, bacteria, fungi, parasites, toxins, prions, zoonotic 
pathogens, recombinant DNA, genetically modified organisms, viral vectors, 
synthetic organisms, cell lines/cultures) 
 ☐  Yes  ☐  No

Mitacs BSI Application  
MITACS-BSI-CED-LAP Link-WS26 | Application form 
Modified: November 28, 2025 (sgbrown) 
Page 20 of 22 
 
 
f. Radioactive materials 
 ☐  Yes  ☐  No 
 
g. Restricted substances (e.g., cannabis) 
 ☐  Yes  ☐  No 
 
h. Other: 
 ☐  Yes  ☐  No 
 
If one or more options were checked, any necessary documentation must be 
obtained in accordance with all participating academic institutions’ policies and 
maintained throughout the duration of the research project. 
 
e. Will the project involve the use of personal data or large datasets that could be considered 
sensitive (for additional information, see List 2 of Annex A of the National Security 
Guidelines for Research Partnerships)? 
 ☐  Yes  ☒  No  
 
If yes, please describe:  
 
f. Will the project involve research related to critical minerals and/or one of the critical 
infrastructure sectors? 
 ☐  Yes  ☒  No 
 
If yes, please describe:  
 
g. Will the project involve research related to goods or technology that are included on 
the Export Control List (ECL) of the Export and Import Permits Act (EIPA)? 
 ☐  Yes  ☒  No 
 
If yes, please describe:  
 
h. Will background intellectual property (IP) be transferred from Canadian institution(s) to the 
partner organization(s)? 
 ☐  Yes  ☒  No 
 
If yes, please describe:  
 
i. Will intellectual property (IP) arising from the project be owned by, assigned to, or licensed 
to the partner organization(s)? 
 ☐  Yes  ☒  No 
 
If yes, please describe:

Mitacs BSI Application  
MITACS-BSI-CED-LAP Link-WS26 | Application form 
Modified: November 28, 2025 (sgbrown) 
Page 21 of 22 
 
j. Does the project aim to advance any of the listed Sensitive Technology Research Areas 
(STRAs)? 
 ☐  Yes  ☒  No 
 
If yes, please describe:  
 
If yes, applicants should consider any potential research security risks associated with the 
nature of the proposed activities. Applicants should also consult the policies, guidelines, 
and requirements of their participating Canadian academic institution(s) to determine any 
appropriate research security risk mitigation measures based on federal and provincial 
government guidelines/policy statements, and to identify any necessary actions to ensure 
compliance with relevant government regulations and legislation (e.g., import/export laws) 
 
 
 
 
6.2  DECLARATIONS FROM APPLICATION FORM 
A6.2a Conflict of interest 
 
Mitacs will not approve a BSI application  if the intern listed on the proposal has a position of 
ownership, employment, or influence over the daily operations of the partner organization. Interns 
with close family or intimate relationships with academic supervisors or employees of the partner 
organization are also ineligible. Any other real or perceived conflict of interest (COI) - for example, 
past intern employment at the partner organization  - must be disclosed to Mitacs during the 
application process using  the Intern Eligibility and Conflict of Interest Declaration Form. Academic 
supervisors must disclose any COIs through the Academic Institution Acknowledgement of COI(s) 
Form, and submit this documentation on behalf of their post -secondary institution when applying 
through the Registration and Application Portal (RAP) .  
 
Mitacs will first determine if BSI program rules are satisfied, and if so Mitacs will then review the 
COI to determine whether mitigations can be enacted to manage the COI. If a COI does exist, we 
suggest that you contact your Mitacs Advisor prior to starting an application to ensure that the 
participants in this project are eligible for the program. Please view the Mitacs Conflict of Interest 
Policy for more information.    
 
PLEASE NOTE : Failure to disclose a COI will :  
• Delay the project  evaluation proces s. 
• Require submission of a COI mitigation approach  satisfactory to Mitacs before project work 
initiates or continues.  
• Risk forced withdrawal from the BSI program , should a satisfactory mitigation plan not be 
reached. 
 
Have any applicants declared a COI via the appropriate documentation?        
☐  Yes, an intern         
☐  Yes, an academic supervisor         
☒  No

Mitacs BSI Application  
MITACS-BSI-CED-LAP Link-WS26 | Application form 
Modified: November 28, 2025 (sgbrown) 
Page 22 of 22 
 
A-6.2b  Indigenous engagement 
Please indicate if any of the below statements are true. 
☐  One or more named interns self-declares as an Indigenous person 
☐  The partner organization is a for-profit organization with self-identifying Indigenous 
persons who hold 50% or greater ownership shares 
☐  The partner organization is a not-for-profit with board membership consisting of 50% of 
greater self-identifying Indigenous persons 
☒  The partner organization is a not-for-profit whose core mandate includes Indigenous 
community impact or serving Indigenous communities           
 
* If any of the above statements are true, your organization may be eligible for enhanced leveraging 
via the Mitacs Indigenous Pathways Initiative. Please check with your Mitacs Advisor for more 
information. 
 
A-6.2c Type of innovation 
Please select all the types of innovation you will significantly impact through your project. Refer to 
the following definition of innovation for further information: Defining innovation - OECD. 
 
☐  Product innovation                     
☒  Process innovation                     
☐  Marketing innovation                     
☒  Organizational innovation