Canada.caCanada Research Coordinating CommitteeNew Frontiers in Research Fund
International
2026 International Joint Initiative for
Research Harnessing Disruptive
Technologies to Address Global Challenges
On this page
Description
Expectations for funded projects
Timeline
Webinars
Value and duration
Eligibility requirements
Project team
Contact list
Application process
Funding principles
Merit review
Funding organizations
Terms and conditions
Frequently asked questions
The International Joint Initiative for Research Harnessing Disruptive Technologies to Address Global
Challenges represents a collaboration among research funders from the Åland Islands, Brazil,
Canada, Denmark, Finland, the Faroe Islands, Greenland, Iceland, Ireland, the Netherlands,
Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, and the United Kingdom to support international,
interdisciplinary and transformative research aimed at harnessing disruptive technology to address
major global societal challenges.
Description
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were adopted by all member states of the United
Nations in 2015 as part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. They are a call to action
for all countries to work together to tackle major and interlinked global challenges to ensure long-
2/23/26, 12:30 PM 2026 International Joint Initiative for Research Harnessing Disruptive Technologies to Address Global Challenges
https://sshrc-crsh.canada.ca/funding-financement/nfrf-fnfr/international/2026/competition-concours-eng.aspx 1/27

term peace and prosperity. There has been global recognition that the world is behind on achieving
the SDGs by their 2030 target date. Indeed, the challenges facing humanity instead seem to be
intensifying. Concurrently, advances in science, communication and disruptive technology are
changing the world around us.
This call aims to harness the potential of disruptive technology to offer novel solutions to global
challenges and accelerate progress towards achieving the SDGs. More research is needed on how
disruptive technologies can be used in contextually appropriate interventions to have transformative
economic or societal impacts to improve the lives of people and the planet.
In this call, “disruptive technology” is defined as “an innovation whose application replaces
or radically alters systems, processes and/or behaviours to have transformative economic or
societal impacts. The impact may be localized or far-reaching. Disruptive technology may include
cutting-edge and novel innovations, or the application of an existing innovation in a new context,
bringing about substantial change or paradigm shifts.”
Research harnessing disruptive technologies to address global challenges requires an
interdisciplinary approach involving expertise across disciplines—including the natural sciences,
engineering, health sciences, social sciences and humanities—and across sectors, including
academia, government, not-for-profit organizations, community organizations and private industry.
Co-development of research and solutions in partnership with affected stakeholders is essential for
long-term success.
This interdisciplinary and stakeholder-oriented approach is instrumental to pushing forward change
at an international scale to help make progress towards achieving the SDGs. Projects in this call
must directly address at least one of the SDGs.
The 17 SDGs are:
1. No Poverty
End poverty in all its forms everywhere.
2. Zero Hunger
End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture.
3. Good Health and Well-Being
Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages.
4. Quality Education
Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for
all.
5. Gender Equality
Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls.
2/23/26, 12:30 PM 2026 International Joint Initiative for Research Harnessing Disruptive Technologies to Address Global Challenges
https://sshrc-crsh.canada.ca/funding-financement/nfrf-fnfr/international/2026/competition-concours-eng.aspx 2/27

6. Clean Water and Sanitation
Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all.
7. Affordable and Clean Energy
Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all.
8. Decent Work and Economic Growth
Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive
employment and decent work for all.
9. Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure
Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster
innovation.
10. Reduced Inequalities
Reduce inequality within and among countries.
11. Sustainable Cities and Communities
Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.
12. Responsible Consumption and Production
Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns.
13. Climate Action
Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts.
14. Life Below Water
Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable
development.
15. Life on Land
Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage
forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity
loss.
16. Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions
Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to
justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels.
17. Partnerships for the Goals
2/23/26, 12:30 PM 2026 International Joint Initiative for Research Harnessing Disruptive Technologies to Address Global Challenges
https://sshrc-crsh.canada.ca/funding-financement/nfrf-fnfr/international/2026/competition-concours-eng.aspx 3/27

Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the Global Partnership for Sustainable
Development.
In recognition that there are gaps in the SDGs, particularly related to Indigenous communities,
projects may also apply if they are addressing a global challenge that is not captured by the SDGs.
Other
If “other” is selected, the proposal will have to justify that its focus is a relevant global challenge for
this call, and it will be up to the review panel to assess fit-to-program. Projects that do not pass fit-to-
program at the letter of intent (LOI) stage will not be invited to the full application stage.
Expectations for funded projects
The International Initiative for Research Harnessing Disruptive Technologies to Address Global
Challenges call will support research projects focused on harnessing disruptive technologies
to address at least one of the SDGs or another recognized global challenge. Projects may be
focused on developing or implementing a disruptive technology, or on researching the impact of a
disruptive technology on society and/or economies.  
Projects must be interdisciplinary, integrating information, data, techniques, tools, perspectives,
concepts or theories from two or more disciplines or bodies of specialized knowledge. Projects must
involve disciplines from at least two of the following three areas: natural sciences and engineering;
social sciences and humanities; and health and life sciences.
Projects are expected to include appropriate stakeholders and end-users in the co-development and
co-leadership of the project. Engagement with other sectors, as appropriate, will help identify
barriers to implementation and develop strategies to overcome them. A transsectoral approach,
involving the academic, research, economic (businesses), societal (governmental and
nongovernmental organizations) and/or community sectors, as appropriate, ensures relevant
outcomes, and positions research for uptake and use, which will maximize impact in the long term.
Non-academic stakeholders may be included as team members or collaborators.
Several funding organizations allow funds to be transferred to team members from outside of their
country. Teams are encouraged to include and budget for members from non-funding-organization
countries, particularly the Global South. See Table 1 for more information on which funders allow for
international funds transfer, and any limitations.
To highlight the outcomes of funded projects and enable knowledge mobilization and cross-project
learning, a forum will be organized at the mid-term (online) and at the end of the grant (possibly in-
person). Stakeholders, including policy-makers from governments and non-governmental
organizations, will be invited to the end of grant forum. The forums may also be a springboard for
2/23/26, 12:30 PM 2026 International Joint Initiative for Research Harnessing Disruptive Technologies to Address Global Challenges
https://sshrc-crsh.canada.ca/funding-financement/nfrf-fnfr/international/2026/competition-concours-eng.aspx 4/27

new research collaborations. A kick-off meeting will be organized online for teams to connect with
other projects and ask questions of the funders. Applicants are encouraged to include expenses
related to attending the end of grant forum in their project budgets.
Timeline
Date Milestone
January 2026 Competition launches
Convergence Portal opens for notices of intent (NOIs)
February 2026 Information webinars
March 3, 2026 Deadline to submit a required NOI
March 9, 2026 Convergence Portal opens for LOIs
June 9, 2026 Deadline to submit an LOI
August 26, 2026 LOI results released
August 27, 2026 Convergence Portal opens for full applications
November 3, 2026 Deadline to submit full application
March 2027 Notice of funding decisions
March 2027 Start date of awards
Webinars
Applicants and research administrators: attend a webinar to learn more about the 2026 International
Joint Initiative for Research Harnessing Disruptive Technologies to Address Global Challenges
competition and application process.
Webinar recordings will be made available following the session.
Date Time (eastern) Language
Information webinar
February 3, 2026 9:30 to 11:30 a.m. English Join webinar
February 4, 2026 9:30 to 11:30 a.m. French Join webinar
2/23/26, 12:30 PM 2026 International Joint Initiative for Research Harnessing Disruptive Technologies to Address Global Challenges
https://sshrc-crsh.canada.ca/funding-financement/nfrf-fnfr/international/2026/competition-concours-eng.aspx 5/27

Date Time (eastern) Language
Drop-in question session
February 11, 2026 1:00 to 2:00 p.m. English/French Join webinar
Value and duration
Projects should be designed to be completed within three years. Funding is available for three-year
projects. One-year no-cost extensions may be available in some circumstances, on request and
requiring appropriate justification. The total amount of funding available for each project will depend
on the funding organizations supporting the project. See the information provided in the annexes
(links in Table 1) for information on the level of financial support available.
Eligibility requirements
Applicants must apply as a transnational research project partnership. Project teams must be
interdisciplinary, incorporating required disciplinary expertise. It is strongly recommended that all
project teams include at least one expert in social sciences or humanities among the co-principal
investigators (co-PIs), fostering successful implementation for maximum impact.
Each funding organization may have additional eligibility rules for applicants and proposed projects.
Use the links in Table 1 to review each funding organization’s eligibility rules, requirements, funding
mandate, policies, eligible costs and procedures.
Project team
Each project team must be eligible to receive funds from at least three funding organizations. To fulfil
this requirement, the project team must include a minimum of three principal investigators, each
eligible to receive funding from a different participating funding organization. At least one of the three
principal investigators must be eligible to apply to the New Frontiers in Research Fund (NFRF)
program. The principal investigators eligible for the three funding organizations will be co-PIs on the
proposal. The project team must identify a project lead from among the co-PIs. The project lead will
be the primary contact point for the project as a whole.
Project teams will comprise the minimum of three co-PIs, as well as other co-PIs, co-applicants, and
collaborators. Co-PIs share responsibility for the direction of the project and the coordination of
proposed research activities, in addition to participating in the execution of the research project. Co-
applicants and collaborators contribute to the execution of the research project; however,
collaborators’ research activities may not be supported by grant funds. See each funding
organization’s annex for more details on eligibility.
2/23/26, 12:30 PM 2026 International Joint Initiative for Research Harnessing Disruptive Technologies to Address Global Challenges
https://sshrc-crsh.canada.ca/funding-financement/nfrf-fnfr/international/2026/competition-concours-eng.aspx 6/27

Role Minimum Requirement Definition and Description of Role
Co-principal
investigator
Three co-PIs, including:
one NFRF-eligible
principle
investigator
one principle
investigator eligible
to receive funds
from the second
funding
organization
one principal
investigator eligible
to receive funds
from the third
funding
organization
 
Share responsibility for the direction
of the project and the coordination of
proposed research activities, in
addition to participating in the
execution of the project.
Projects must include a principal
investigator eligible to apply to the
respective funding organization from
which they are requesting funds.
One of the co-PIs must be designated
project lead, the primary point of contact
for the project as a whole.
Each co-PI receiving funds is responsible
for managing the grant received from the
respective funding organization.
The co-PI eligible for funding from NFRF
is responsible for initializing and
submitting the application on the
Convergence Portal.
Individuals may participate as a co-PI on
only one application to this competition.
Teams are encouraged to include at least
one co-PI with expertise in the social
sciences or humanities.
Teams may include more than three co-
PIs if these team members will share
responsibility for the direction of the
project and the coordination of project
activities. These additional co-PIs could
fall under two categories:
1. individual(s) eligible to receive
funds from additional funding
organization(s); or
2. individual(s) whose research
activities will be supported through
the grant issued to another co-PI.
2/23/26, 12:30 PM 2026 International Joint Initiative for Research Harnessing Disruptive Technologies to Address Global Challenges
https://sshrc-crsh.canada.ca/funding-financement/nfrf-fnfr/international/2026/competition-concours-eng.aspx 7/27

Role Minimum Requirement Definition and Description of Role
Co-applicantNone Contribute to the execution of the research
project.
Research activities may be supported by funds
from this grant.
CollaboratorNone Contribute to the execution of the research
project.
Funds from this grant may not be used to
support their research activities or
collaboration.
To reflect the expertise required to deliver on the ambitious and interdisciplinary nature of the
project, proposals must be submitted by interdisciplinary teams. The appropriate team size and
composition will depend on the proposed project and may include individuals from any discipline and
sector. Additional team members may be added at the LOI and full application stages, but the
minimum eligibility requirements must be met at every stage of the competition.
To foster the participation of many and ensure teams have sufficient time to dedicate to the project,
individuals may participate as a co-PI (or principal investigator) on only one application to this
competition. An individual listed as a co-PI on multiple applications will have their status changed to
a co-applicant on all but one application, determined by the order in which the applications are
received. This may affect the eligibility of applications on which they are no longer a co-PI.
Early career researchers
Project teams are encouraged to support the next generation of researchers. The suitability of the
research environment and research project for students and trainees will be assessed as part of the
Feasibility criterion at the full application stage (see below and the evaluation matrices).
Contact list
If you would like to connect with other researchers interested in this call, join our contact list.
Complete this survey before February 9, 2026, and you will be added to a list through which your
information will be shared with others interested in participating in the call, and their information will
be shared with you. By submitting the survey, you consent to the information you provide being
shared with other potential applicants.
2/23/26, 12:30 PM 2026 International Joint Initiative for Research Harnessing Disruptive Technologies to Address Global Challenges
https://sshrc-crsh.canada.ca/funding-financement/nfrf-fnfr/international/2026/competition-concours-eng.aspx 8/27

Application process
To apply to this call, teams must submit an NOI by March 3, 2026. This is a mandatory step in the
application process. The NOI is used for administrative purposes and is not assessed. Once the NOI
deadline has passed, the research team will immediately be able to work on their LOI. The team
must submit their LOI by June 9, 2026. Submitted LOIs will be evaluated for the purpose of
identifying teams to be invited to the full application stage.
Funding principles
This call will be implemented through a coordinated funding approach: for successful applications,
each funding organization will award funding to a researcher within the project team who is eligible
to receive funding from them.
Funding will be awarded according to the rules, regulations, terms and conditions of the funding
organization. Eligible expenses may vary across a project team. Applicants must review the
documentation from the relevant funding organizations (links in Table 1) to ensure the proposed
project and associated budget meet all eligibility requirements. 
Project team members who are not eligible to receive funds from other funding organizations may be
eligible for support from NFRF. Using the links in Table 1, research teams should check the eligibility
of expenses before submitting their full application.
Merit review
Considerations
Indigenous research
For proposals involving Indigenous research, the Social Sciences and Humanities Research
Council’s Indigenous Research Statement of Principles and Guidelines for the Merit Review of
Indigenous Research may be used as a reference. The guidelines are provided to merit reviewers to
help build understanding of Indigenous research and research-related activities, and to help
committee members interpret the specific evaluation criteria in the context of Indigenous research.
The guidelines may also be useful to external assessors, postsecondary institutions and partner
organizations that support Indigenous research.
Equity, diversity and inclusion considerations in research design
The goal in considering equity, diversity and inclusion (EDI) in research design is to promote
rigorous research that is sensitive to sex and gender, as well as many other identity factors, such as
race, ethnicity, religion, age, and mental or physical disability. EDI considerations must be
2/23/26, 12:30 PM 2026 International Joint Initiative for Research Harnessing Disruptive Technologies to Address Global Challenges
https://sshrc-crsh.canada.ca/funding-financement/nfrf-fnfr/international/2026/competition-concours-eng.aspx 9/27

integrated in the project design. A rationale must be provided in cases where a research team
believes no aspect of their research may benefit from an analysis to consider sex, gender or other
identity factors.
Research security
Applications submitted to NFRF are subject to Canada’s Policy on Sensitive Technology Research
and Affiliations of Concern. The policy prohibits funding of research that advances a sensitive
technology research area if any of the researchers involved are affiliated with or in receipt of funding
or in-kind support from a university, research institute or laboratory connected to military, national
defence, or state security entities that could pose a risk to Canada’s national security. For proposals
that fall under a sensitive technology research area, the research team members will need to
provide an attestation as part of their submission, if they are invited to the full application stage.
Read the tri-agency guidance on the policy to understand how this may impact your application. See
more details in the NFRF annex.
Selection criteria
There are seven selection criteria for this funding opportunity. An overview of the criteria as they
apply to the evaluation of proposals follows. Not all criteria and elements are evaluated at the LOI
stage. The elements considered under each criterion at both stages of evaluation (LOI and full
application) are outlined in more detail in the evaluation matrices.
Fit-to-program
Disruptive technology must be central to the project. The proposed research must also directly
address at least one of the SDGs. Applications must explain how they meet the competition
definition of disruptive technology, and clearly outline the SDG the proposed work addresses.  
Interdisciplinarity
The proposed research must present an interdisciplinary approach. The interdisciplinary
approach―integrating information, data, techniques, tools, perspectives, concepts or theories from
two or more disciplines or bodies of specialized knowledge―brings a new perspective to the
challenge. To meet the minimum requirement to be considered interdisciplinary, the proposed
research project must include at least two of the following three broad areas of science: natural
sciences and engineering; social sciences and humanities; and health and life sciences.
Projects may involve any disciplines, thematic areas, approaches or subject areas, and may address
fundamental or applied challenges, but the interdisciplinary approach is considered essential to
ensure project outcomes have real impact and the potential to drive societal change. Proposals must
explain how the disciplinary perspectives, methodologies and techniques will be integrated,
maintained and implemented. In addition, proposals must demonstrate that the team has the
required expertise to execute the approach.
2/23/26, 12:30 PM 2026 International Joint Initiative for Research Harnessing Disruptive Technologies to Address Global Challenges
https://sshrc-crsh.canada.ca/funding-financement/nfrf-fnfr/international/2026/competition-concours-eng.aspx 10/27

Equity, diversity and inclusion in research practice
Applicants must clearly demonstrate their commitment to EDI in their research teams, including
among students, postdoctoral fellows, co-PIs, co-applicants and/or collaborators, as applicable.
Teams should also consider diversity as it applies to career stages, sectors, institutions, regions and
countries. They must explain what actions they will take, the outcomes expected, and the
assessment planned, for each of the following three key areas:
team composition and recruitment processes
training and development opportunities
inclusion
Actions taken are expected to minimize and mitigate barriers and provide opportunities for the
meaningful integration of individuals from all groups and/or communities (including women,
Indigenous Peoples, members of racialized minorities and persons with disabilities). Approaches
should be appropriate to the team’s context, considering the countries where the members
are, where project activities will be undertaken, and relevant exemplars of best practice.
Applications must not include in the EDI section any personal information (for example, gender or
racial identity) about members of the research team; the focus is on the team’s commitment to
EDI, not its EDI profile.
For more information, see NFRF’s Best Practices in Equity, Diversity and Inclusion in Research
Practice and Design.
Strength of the project consortium
The quality of the project consortium will be evaluated under this criterion. It includes elements such
as, but not limited to:
knowledge, expertise, capacity and availability of the project team; and
how the approach builds on, integrates and benefits from expertise, perspectives and
resources of a wide variety of regions and disciplines, as appropriate.
The size of the consortium is not an evaluation element—smaller consortiums will not be considered
less qualified. The focus is on integration of the team and expertise required to achieve the
proposed project’s objectives.
High risk—novelty of approach / scientific rigour
High risk refers to the novelty of the proposed approach to the challenge, and the quality of the
research proposed. Proposals that address a rarely tackled SDG or a combination of SDGs; and/or
involve a novel disruptive technology or a novel approach to a disruptive technology may be
considered higher risk. Proposals must explain:
how the project is novel, as it relates to the latest methods, concepts, information and
techniques, as well as other major projects currently underway; and
2/23/26, 12:30 PM 2026 International Joint Initiative for Research Harnessing Disruptive Technologies to Address Global Challenges
https://sshrc-crsh.canada.ca/funding-financement/nfrf-fnfr/international/2026/competition-concours-eng.aspx 11/27

why the approach is expected to lead to change.
High reward—anticipated societal impact
Funded proposals must have the potential to create a significant and real societal change or impact,
including contributing to addressing at least one of the SDGs. Applications must explain the
anticipated change or impact likely to result, and its significance. Proposals must outline the major
short-, medium- and long-term changes expected, with a projected timeline, the likelihood of their
being achieved, and who (or what) will be affected by the changes. This includes what is expected to
be achieved during the three-year project, but also how outcomes will be positioned to maximize
potential for longer-term uptake and impact. High reward can be defined by elements such as, but
not limited to:
having an economic, scientific, artistic, cultural, social, technological or health impact;
impacting and/or affecting large communities, or unique communities or subpopulations with
the potential to provide lessons for other contexts;
significantly advancing current knowledge, methods and/or technologies, and positioning them
for uptake; and/or
implementing, testing and refining solutions for maximum impact.
Feasibility—capacity to execute the project
Feasibility considers the plan and the ability to execute the activities. It includes elements such as,
but not limited to:
workplan and timeline;
value for money;
the plan for research uptake, partnering with stakeholders and end users;
the plan for monitoring, evaluation and learning;
the proposed approach, including EDI considerations in research design where appropriate;
the project’s approach to co-production with communities and other stakeholders, where
applicable;
the project’s partnership and reciprocity with Indigenous Peoples, where applicable;
the suitability of the research environment;
management and governance plans; and
assessment of, and approach to minimizing, the environmental footprint of the project (reuse of
data, collaboration on field data collection, hybrid meetings, means of transportation, etc.).
Diversity
Following the assessment of full applications based on the criteria above, the
multidisciplinary/multisectoral review panel may consider diversity as a second-order consideration.
This consideration will only apply between equally rated applications, to prioritize an application that
addresses:
2/23/26, 12:30 PM 2026 International Joint Initiative for Research Harnessing Disruptive Technologies to Address Global Challenges
https://sshrc-crsh.canada.ca/funding-financement/nfrf-fnfr/international/2026/competition-concours-eng.aspx 12/27

disruptive technologies not tackled by other proposals ranked as high or higher;
an uncommon combination of technology and SDGs; and/or
challenges faced in unique geographic regions not tackled by other proposals ranked as high
or higher.
Applications will be assessed against each of these elements. Those that meet multiple diversity
elements will be prioritized above those that meet fewer or none. If there is a need to prioritize
among applications that meet the same number of diversity elements, they will be prioritized
according to the order listed above.
Review process
Notice of intent to apply stage
NOIs will be used for administrative purposes to assess indicative eligibility of the project team, and
to compose the multidisciplinary/multisectoral review panel at the full application stage. NOIs are not
assessed for scientific merit; project teams should begin working on their LOI once the NOI deadline
has passed.
Letter of intent to apply stage
LOIs will be evaluated using a distributed peer review process. In this process, applicants are also
the reviewers and review other proposals submitted to the same funding opportunity. By submitting
an LOI, applicants agree to act as reviewers and to have their proposal reviewed by other applicants
to the call. For this competition, all co-PIs must be available and willing to act as reviewers.
By submitting an LOI, you accept the following terms and conditions:
selected co-PIs will receive a maximum of 10 LOIs to review; and
reviewers are expected to carefully read all assigned proposals, rate them, and provide
feedback that will go to the applicants, following the rules and guidelines.
Co-PIs’ completion of timely and high-quality reviews of assigned LOIs is an eligibility
requirement for moving to the full application stage. Failure to complete the reviews by the
deadline, or submission of reviews of consistently poor quality, will result in the proposal the co-
PI is part of being deemed ineligible to proceed to the full application stage.
By using different reviewer clusters and an allocation algorithm, LOIs will be assigned to reviewers in
such a way that the reviewer’s assessment of other LOIs has no bearing on the outcome of the
reviewer’s own proposal, other than in the situations noted above.
Applications submitted in French may be translated into English by NFRF before being shared with
reviewers, to ensure all co-PIs are able to review fairly.
2/23/26, 12:30 PM 2026 International Joint Initiative for Research Harnessing Disruptive Technologies to Address Global Challenges
https://sshrc-crsh.canada.ca/funding-financement/nfrf-fnfr/international/2026/competition-concours-eng.aspx 13/27

Reviewers will have access to all sections of the NOI and LOI, except the participants’ personal
profiles; reviewer exclusions; and certifications. The reviewers will assess proposals against the
following selection criteria:
fit-to-program (pass/fail)
interdisciplinarity (pass/fail)
strength of project consortium (30%)
high risk (25%)
high reward (25%)
feasibility (20%)
The outcome of the evaluation at the LOI stage is a recommendation to project teams whether to
proceed with the preparation and submission of a full application. Project teams invited to submit a
full application will have their proposals automatically transitioned to the full application stage in the
Convergence Portal, allowing them to work on their full applications. Project teams that receive
negative advice (i.e. are advised not to continue) may still choose to submit a full application. In
order to continue in the competition, such project teams must reach out to the NFRF team at NFRF-
FNFR@chairs-chaires.gc.ca and request access to the full application in the Convergence Portal,
including a short justification for continuing against the advice received, within two weeks of
receiving the outcome of the LOI stage review.  
Proposals that do not pass the fit-to-program or interdisciplinarity criterion will be advised not to
proceed to the full application stage. Reviewers’ ratings for the high risk, high reward and feasibility
criteria will determine an overall score for each LOI.
Selection of letters of intent invited to the full application stage
The list of proposals to be invited to submit a full application will be determined by the funding
organizations based on the ratings and the following additional conditions:
The invited proposals’ funding requests must not exceed three times the available budget of
each funding organization.
Additional proposals may be invited to ensure all funding organizations are represented in the
full application stage.
To fulfil the above-mentioned conditions, it may be necessary to deviate from the ratings. This
means LOIs placed lower in the ranking may be invited if their invitation ensures all funding
organizations are represented in the list of proposals. At the same time, higher-ranking LOIs may not
be invited if the budget requested from the involved funding organizations exceeds three times the
available budget for one or more of the involved funders.
Full application stage
Full applications will be reviewed by members of the multidisciplinary/multisectoral review panel.
Each application will be assigned to a minimum of three members of the
multidisciplinary/multisectoral review panel. Members will have access to the entire application. The
2/23/26, 12:30 PM 2026 International Joint Initiative for Research Harnessing Disruptive Technologies to Address Global Challenges
https://sshrc-crsh.canada.ca/funding-financement/nfrf-fnfr/international/2026/competition-concours-eng.aspx 14/27

members will assess proposals against the following selection criteria, using the evaluation matrices
as a guide:
fit-to-program (pass/fail)
EDI in research practice (pass/fail)
interdisciplinarity (pass/fail)
strength of project consortium (20%)
high risk (25%)
high reward (25%)
feasibility (30%)
Members’ ratings for the high risk, high reward and feasibility criteria will determine an overall score
for each application. The review panel will meet virtually to discuss the applications. An application
with an overall rating of fail for any or all of the fit-to-program, EDI in research practice, or
interdisciplinarity criteria will not be considered fundable. The multidisciplinary/multisectoral review
committee will agree to a final list ranking all applications according to their overall merit.
The ranked list will be used in discussions with the funding organizations to determine which
applications will be funded. Applications will be funded in order from highest score to lowest. An
application in the list will only be skipped in cases where one funding organization has no budget
remaining to award to it. If there are insufficient funds to support a group of applications of equal
merit, the multidisciplinary/multisectoral review panel’s assessment of diversity will be used to
prioritize applications from among these for funding.
Funding Organizations
This call is supported by selected funders from different countries.
Table 1: Funding organizations
Country
Funding
Organization
Eligible
Principal
Investigators
Maximum
Value per
Project Contact
2/23/26, 12:30 PM 2026 International Joint Initiative for Research Harnessing Disruptive Technologies to Address Global Challenges
https://sshrc-crsh.canada.ca/funding-financement/nfrf-fnfr/international/2026/competition-concours-eng.aspx 15/27

Country
Funding
Organization
Eligible
Principal
Investigators
Maximum
Value per
Project Contact
Canada New
Frontiers in
Research
Fund
(NFRF), on
behalf of the
Canada
Research
Coordinating
Committee
and
administered
through the
Social
Sciences and
Humanities
Research
Council
Canadian
postsecondary
researchers
eligible to
apply to one of
the three
federal
research
funding
agencies.
CA$1,500,000NFRF-FNFR@chairs-
chaires.gc.ca
2/23/26, 12:30 PM 2026 International Joint Initiative for Research Harnessing Disruptive Technologies to Address Global Challenges
https://sshrc-crsh.canada.ca/funding-financement/nfrf-fnfr/international/2026/competition-concours-eng.aspx 16/27

Country
Funding
Organization
Eligible
Principal
Investigators
Maximum
Value per
Project Contact
Ghana,
Indonesia,
Namibia,
Peru,
Rwanda
and
Zimbabwe
International
Development
Research
Centre
(IDRC), in
consortium
with:
Ghana
National
Research
Fund
(Ghana)
BRIN
(Indonesia)
National
Commission
on Research
Science and
Technology
(Namibia)
CONCYTEC
(Peru)
National
Council for
Science and
Technology
(Rwanda)
Research
Council of
Zimbabwe
(Zimbabwe)
A principal
investigator
based at an
institution in
any of these
six countries
must meet the
eligibility
criteria for their
respective
science
granting
council.
For Ghana,
Namibia and
Zimbabwe:
C$125,000
For Indonesia,
Peru and
Rwanda:
C$250,000
For IDRC:
educationandscience@idrc.ca
For Ghana: TBC
For Indonesia: TBC
For Namibia: TBC
For Peru: TBC
For Rwanda:
research@ncst.gov.rw
For Zimbabwe: TBC
2/23/26, 12:30 PM 2026 International Joint Initiative for Research Harnessing Disruptive Technologies to Address Global Challenges
https://sshrc-crsh.canada.ca/funding-financement/nfrf-fnfr/international/2026/competition-concours-eng.aspx 17/27

Country
Funding
Organization
Eligible
Principal
Investigators
Maximum
Value per
Project Contact
Denmark,
Finland,
Iceland,
Norway,
Sweden,
Faroe
Islands,
Greenland,
and Åland
Islands
NordForsk The principal
investigator
must be a
qualified
researcher
with a PhD and
employed by
the Nordic host
institution
throughout the
duration of the
project. The
host institution
must be
eligible to
apply to
NordForsk
under this call.
NOK17,100,000bjornar.komissar@nordforsk.org
kristin.andersen@nordforsk.org
2/23/26, 12:30 PM 2026 International Joint Initiative for Research Harnessing Disruptive Technologies to Address Global Challenges
https://sshrc-crsh.canada.ca/funding-financement/nfrf-fnfr/international/2026/competition-concours-eng.aspx 18/27

Country
Funding
Organization
Eligible
Principal
Investigators
Maximum
Value per
Project Contact
SwitzerlandSwiss
National
Science
Foundation
(SNSF)
All Swiss
applicants
must meet the
eligibility
requirements
of the SNSF.
The SNSF
Funding
Regulations,
the General
implementation
regulations
and the
Regulations on
Project
Funding are
applicable or
applicable
mutatis
mutandis.
Cost-neutral
extensions up
to one year are
possible.
Private
companies are
not eligible for
funding.
CHF 500,000 International@snf.ch
2/23/26, 12:30 PM 2026 International Joint Initiative for Research Harnessing Disruptive Technologies to Address Global Challenges
https://sshrc-crsh.canada.ca/funding-financement/nfrf-fnfr/international/2026/competition-concours-eng.aspx 19/27

Country
Funding
Organization
Eligible
Principal
Investigators
Maximum
Value per
Project Contact
Brazil São Paulo
Research
Foundation
(FAPESP)
Depends on
grant modality.
A preliminary
eligibility check
will be required
in accordance
with FAPESP
guidelines.
The usual
eligibility
criteria and
restrictions
should apply to
both Regular
Research and
Thematic
Project grants.
Regular
Research grant:
BRL$600,000
Thematic
Project grant:
up to BRL$4.5
million (but
exceptionally
short duration
of three plus
one years)
chamada-NFRF@fapesp.br
The
Netherlands
Dutch
Research
Council
(NWO)
NWO Grant
Rules apply.
For more
details on
eligibility
criteria, see
the national
annex.
€760,000 eagle@nwo.nl
+31 647 038275
+31 651 803778
2/23/26, 12:30 PM 2026 International Joint Initiative for Research Harnessing Disruptive Technologies to Address Global Challenges
https://sshrc-crsh.canada.ca/funding-financement/nfrf-fnfr/international/2026/competition-concours-eng.aspx 20/27

Country
Funding
Organization
Eligible
Principal
Investigators
Maximum
Value per
Project Contact
Ireland Taighde
Éireann –
Research
Ireland
Only an
academic
partner or
coordinator
based at an
eligible Irish
Host Research
Body may
apply for
Research
Ireland
funding.
Refer to the
Ireland country
annex for more
details.
€500,000 direct
costs
challenges@researchireland.ie
United
Kingdom
UK Research
and
Innovation
(UKRI)
The principal
investigator
must be a
researcher at
the
postdoctoral
level or higher,
and based at a
UK research
organization
that is eligible
for UKRI
funding.
TBC IIDTAC@esrc.ukri.org.
2/23/26, 12:30 PM 2026 International Joint Initiative for Research Harnessing Disruptive Technologies to Address Global Challenges
https://sshrc-crsh.canada.ca/funding-financement/nfrf-fnfr/international/2026/competition-concours-eng.aspx 21/27

Country
Funding
Organization
Eligible
Principal
Investigators
Maximum
Value per
Project Contact
Taiwan National
Science and
Technology
Council
(NSTC)
The Taiwanese
principal
investigators
should meet
the eligibility
requirement of
NSTC. For
more details
on eligibility
criteria, please
see the NSTC
annex.
10,800,000
TWD
yijiechen@nstc.gov.tw
New Frontiers in Research Fund (NFRF) 
NFRF supports world-leading interdisciplinary, international, high-risk, high-reward, transformative
and rapid-response research led by Canadian researchers working with Canadian and international
partners. Since 2018, NFRF has funded hundreds of researchers in Canada and their co-
investigators from over 40 countries in the development of novel research projects that address the
critical challenges of our time. 
NFRF is unique in its aim of supporting projects proposing novel interdisciplinary approaches with
the potential for real impact. With a total annual budget exceeding C$100 million, NFRF has sought
to promote these ends through three distinct funding streams. The 2026 International Joint
Initiative for Research Harnessing Disruptive Technology to Address Global Challenges is delivered
under the International stream. 
NFRF is under the strategic direction of the Canada Research Coordinating Committee, which
provides a senior strategic forum for information-sharing, consensus-building and decision-making
on forward-looking initiatives that strengthen Canada’s research enterprise, foster world-leading
research, and advance social and economic well-being. 
Annex
Dutch Research Council (NWO) 
The Dutch Research Council (NWO) is one of the most important science funding bodies in the
Netherlands and realizes quality and innovation in science. Each year, NWO invests almost €1.5
billion in curiosity-driven research, research related to societal challenges and research
2/23/26, 12:30 PM 2026 International Joint Initiative for Research Harnessing Disruptive Technologies to Address Global Challenges
https://sshrc-crsh.canada.ca/funding-financement/nfrf-fnfr/international/2026/competition-concours-eng.aspx 22/27

infrastructure.
NWO selects and funds research proposals based on recommendations from expert scientists and
other experts in the Netherlands and abroad. In addition, NWO has 10 research institutes of their
own where internationally leading research is conducted. NWO encourages national and
international collaboration, invests in large research facilities, facilitates knowledge utilization and
manages research institutes. NWO funds more than 7,500 research projects at universities and
knowledge institutions.
Annex
International Development Research Centre
As part of Canada’s foreign affairs and development efforts, the International Development
Research Centre (IDRC) champions and funds research and innovation in and alongside developing
regions to drive global change. IDRC invests in high-quality research in developing countries, shares
knowledge with researchers and policy-makers for greater uptake and use, and mobilizes our global
alliances to build a more sustainable and inclusive world.
Grants for the following six funders will be coordinated through IDRC. IDRC should be selected as
the relevant funding organization in the Convergence Portal:
Ghana National Research Fund (Ghana)
The Ghana National Research Fund, established by the Government of Ghana in 2020,
mobilizes and manages resources to support high-quality research and innovation that align
with national development priorities.
BRIN (Indonesia)
BRIN was established in 2021 as the national research body in Indonesia. In addition to being a
funding agency, BRIN also has 12 research organizations that carry out research, development,
studies and application, as well as invention and innovation in the context of preparing
recommendations for national development planning based on the results of scientific studies.
National Commission on Research Science and Technology (Namibia)
The National Commission on Research, Science and Technology (NCRST) of Namibia was
established by the Research, Science and Technology Act, 2004, to coordinate, promote,
develop, monitor and supervise research, science, technology and innovation in Namibia. The
NCRST administers the National Research, Science and Technology Fund of Namibia and
determines the national research priorities through the National Programme of Research,
Science, Technology and Innovation.
CONCYTEC (Peru)
2/23/26, 12:30 PM 2026 International Joint Initiative for Research Harnessing Disruptive Technologies to Address Global Challenges
https://sshrc-crsh.canada.ca/funding-financement/nfrf-fnfr/international/2026/competition-concours-eng.aspx 23/27

The National Council for Science, Technology, and Innovation (CONCYTEC) is the governing
body of Peru’s national system for science, technology and innovation. CONCYTEC’s National
Program for Scientific Research and Advanced Studies (PROCIENCIA) promotes and
strengthens national capacities in science and technology. Through PROCIENCIA, CONCYTEC
funds scientific research in all disciplines, promotes the training of high-level researchers and
specialists, supports the equipping of laboratories, and promotes the dissemination of
knowledge, technology transfer and the creation of a scientific and technological culture in the
country.
National Council for Science and Technology (Rwanda)
The National Council for Science and Technology (NCST) is a Rwandan government institution
that ensures the country’s potential for science, technology and innovation is fully harnessed
and integrated to enhance people’s wellbeing, economic growth, entrepreneurship and
competitiveness. The NCST also manages the National Research and Innovation Fund (NRIF),
which helps advance research and technology development in the broader scope of national
development.
Research Council of Zimbabwe (Zimbabwe)
The Research Council of Zimbabwe (RCZ) is a government agency established in accordance
with Research Act Chapter 10:22, with a mandate to promote, direct, supervise and coordinate
high-impact, demand-driven research that translates research findings into goods and services
in Zimbabwe.
National Science and Technology Council
The National Science and Technology Council (NSTC) is tasked to plan the nation’s frontier science
and technology (S&T), promote the development of S&T, apply basic research to industrial
applications, and coordinate the allocation of resources across agencies and fields. As an engine of
S&T innovation, the NSTC will also carry out four missions: “Formulating Forward-looking S&T
Policy,” “Supporting Basic Research,” “Establishing Science Parks” and “Promoting Innovation and
Entrepreneurship.”
The NSTC promotes S&T development and academic research by providing grants to educational
and research institutions. Approved research projects can receive NSTC funding for research
personnel, equipment, facilities, books, references, consumable materials, and overseas travel
expenses. The NSTC also aims to strengthen Taiwan’s ecosystem for scientific and technological
services by building national-level experimental facilities, integrating shared resources and launching
core facilities.
Annex
NordForsk
2/23/26, 12:30 PM 2026 International Joint Initiative for Research Harnessing Disruptive Technologies to Address Global Challenges
https://sshrc-crsh.canada.ca/funding-financement/nfrf-fnfr/international/2026/competition-concours-eng.aspx 24/27

NordForsk was established in 2005 by the Nordic Council of Ministers for the purpose of
strengthening Nordic research. NordForsk’s key stakeholders comprise the national research
councils, universities and other research-funding bodies. Together we work to identify common
Nordic priorities and provide funding for research and research infrastructure.
Through the financing and administration of research programmes NordForsk brings together
national research groups and promotes research activities of the highest scientific quality.
The goal of NordForsk is to be an effective facilitator of research collaboration that makes an impact,
and to ensure that the research is of high international quality and delivers Nordic added value.
Annex
Research Ireland
Taighde Éireann – Research Ireland is Ireland’s national research and innovation agency, dedicated
to supporting research excellence and innovation that strengthens the country’s global
competitiveness and delivers societal impact. As the Irish government’s primary research and
innovation body, it plays a pivotal role in fostering excellent research, supporting talent, and enabling
innovation and collaboration across academia, industry and society. 
Annex
São Paulo Research Foundation (FAPESP)
FAPESP is a public foundation, funded by the taxpayer in the state of São Paulo, Brazil, with the
mission to support research projects in higher education and research institutions, in all fields of
knowledge. By remit, FAPESP can only fund researchers affiliated to institutions based in the state
of São Paulo.
The foundation works in close contact with the scientific community: all proposals are peer reviewed.
Besides funding research in all fields, the foundation supports large research programs in
Biodiversity, Bioenergy, Global Climate Change, among others.
FAPESP maintains co-operation agreements with national and international research funding
agencies, higher educational and research institutions, and business enterprises. The international
co-operation covers a broad range of countries and agencies.
Swiss National Science Foundation
Based on a government mandate, the SNSF supports scientific research in all academic
disciplines―from physics to medicine to sociology. At the end of 2024, the SNSF was funding 6,000
projects involving more than 22,000 researchers, which makes it the leading Swiss institution for
promoting scientific research.
2/23/26, 12:30 PM 2026 International Joint Initiative for Research Harnessing Disruptive Technologies to Address Global Challenges
https://sshrc-crsh.canada.ca/funding-financement/nfrf-fnfr/international/2026/competition-concours-eng.aspx 25/27

To ensure its independence, the SNSF was established as a private foundation in 1952. Its core task
is the evaluation of research proposals. In 2024, it awarded 960 million francs to the most promising
project proposals under its regular funding schemes and an additional 189 million for the Horizon
Europe transitional measures. By allocating public research money based on the principle of
competition, the SNSF contributes to the high quality of research in Switzerland.
In close collaboration with higher education institutions and other partners, the SNSF strives to
create optimal conditions for the development and international integration of Swiss research. It pays
particular attention to the promotion of young researchers. In addition, it accepts evaluation
mandates to ensure that large research initiatives funded by third parties deliver the highest
scientific quality.
United Kingdom Research and Innovation (UKRI)
UKRI is a nondepartmental public body of the Government of the United Kingdom that directs
research and innovation funding. The Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) and the Arts
and Humanities Research Council (AHRC) are part of the nine bodies in UKRI. The ESRC is the
UK’s largest funder of economic, social, behavioural and human data science. ESRC supports
independent, high-quality research that has an impact on business, the public sector and civil
society. AHRC funds world-class researchers in a wide range of arts and humanities areas, from
philosophy and the creative industries to art conservation and product design. AHRC-funded
research addresses some of society’s biggest challenges, such as tackling modern slavery,
exploring the ethical implications of artificial intelligence, and understanding what it is to be human.
Terms and conditions
The funding organizations reserve the right to:
determine the eligibility of applications, based on the information therein;
interpret the regulations and policies governing their funding opportunities;
apply conditions to individual grants; and
alter, without advance notice, the terms and conditions of grant awards, with any and all major
changes in regulations being announced promptly.
Frequently asked questions
Do projects need a Canadian team member?
Should all team members apply separately?
I am a participant (NPI, co-PI or co-applicant) on an active NFRF grant and/or am a
participant on a current application to a competition in another NFRF stream (e.g., Exploration
or Transformation). Am I eligible to apply to this competition?
2/23/26, 12:30 PM 2026 International Joint Initiative for Research Harnessing Disruptive Technologies to Address Global Challenges
https://sshrc-crsh.canada.ca/funding-financement/nfrf-fnfr/international/2026/competition-concours-eng.aspx 26/27

Can teams include members who are not from one of the funding organization countries?
What expenses are eligible under NFRF? Are co-applicants eligible to receive compensation?
Date modified:
2026-01-26
2/23/26, 12:30 PM 2026 International Joint Initiative for Research Harnessing Disruptive Technologies to Address Global Challenges
https://sshrc-crsh.canada.ca/funding-financement/nfrf-fnfr/international/2026/competition-concours-eng.aspx 27/27