Application - Insight Development Grants
Identification (mandatory)
Applicant
Family Name: Minaker  First Name: Leia
Middle Names: M
Current Position: Director
Primary Affiliation: University of Waterloo
Department/Division: Future Cities Institute
Application
Application Title
 
 Enabling evidence-based policymaking and interdisciplinary social change research for
homelessness: Developing and evaluating CivicInquire, Canada’s first intersectional AI-
powered social science platform
Language of the
Application
 English French  
Committee 23 - Multidisciplinary or interdisciplinary social sciences 
Joint or Special Initiative 
Is this a research-
creation project?
 Yes No  
Does your proposal
involve Indigenous
research as defined by
SSHRC?
 Yes No  
Scholar type
Research Portal
Personal information will be stored in the Personal Information Bank for the appropriate program.
PROTECTED B WHEN COMPLETED

Are you an Emerging
Scholar or Established
Scholar? 
Established
Confirmed Scholar type Established
Established scholars: proposed versus ongoing research (mandatory)
I am an interdisciplinary social sciences researcher with expertise in disease prevention, epidemiology, health policy, public 
health, social determinants of health, and urban health. Using methods and theories from these fields, my research 
program has previously investigated food retail environments, food marketing, population dietary risk, public health 
surveillance for chronic diseas risk, youth health behaviours and beliefs, healthy city planning, smart cities and health 
inerventions, and equity in social policy and local and regional planning processes. 
The proposed project builds on this work of my research program but, importantly, expands into several new areas of 
interdisciplinary social science research and knowledge dissemination activities. This can be illustrated in multiple aspects 
of the project. First, the propsoed project requires the development of a new research team that features expertise in 
areas that I do not have extensive previous collaboration with, notably bioinformatics, digital health, 
housing/homelessness, housing policy, and policy intensity analysis (esp. AI in policy reviews). Second, the proposed 
project applies an intersectional lens to AI methods in social science research and planning policy analysis, both of which 
reflect novel applications of intersectional theory. As a result, the proposed project will generate some of the first 
intersectional planning policy analyses quantifying meulti-level government alignment (O2) and critically investigating the 
state of housing and homelessness policy (O3) in Canada. And third, the proposed project aims to create an enduring 
open-access resource for any individual (e.g., academia, advocacy, housing developer, public sector) to use. This aim, 
however, will require ongoing maintenance and oversight. Such support will be provided by the Future Cities Institute, of 
which I am the director. The FCI is a new institute on the University of Waterloo and, as a part of its mission statement, is 
committed to producing public education resources, which this project will represent one of the first such resources created 
and maintained by the FCI. Therefore, this project is also intended to become a template for future public education 
resources that the FCI will develop in the coming years. 
This project is in the early stages of the research process. To date, we have developed a prototype of the CivicInquire 
platform (www.civicinquire.com) via a small working group of collaborators involved this application. We have not collected, 
reviewed, or analyzed any data related to the objectives of the proposed project. 
Administering organization (individual grants) or lead organization (institutional grants)
Organization University of Waterloo
Department/Division Planning
Invitations
RoleRole Last NameLast Name First NameFirst Name OrganizationOrganization DepartmentDepartment
Co-
applicant
Butt Zahid University of Waterloo School of Public Health Sciences
Co-
applicant
Buttazzoni Adrian University of Waterloo Planning
Co-
applicant
Chen Helen University of Waterloo School of Public Health Sciences
Personal information will be stored in the Personal Information Bank for the appropriate program.
PROTECTED B WHEN COMPLETED

RoleRole Last NameLast Name First NameFirst Name OrganizationOrganization DepartmentDepartment
Co-
applicant
Da Silva E
Souza
Miranda
Pedro
Augusto
University of Waterloo Health
Co-
applicant
Glover Troy University of Waterloo Recreation and Leisure Studies
Co-
applicant
Layton Anita University of Waterloo Mathematics
Co-
applicant
Mazumder Robin University of Waterloo Planning
Collaborator Gash Leslie No Primary Affiliation No Department/Division
Collaborator McEvoy Chris No Primary Affiliation No Department/Division
Activity details
Certification requirements (mandatory)
Does the proposed
research involve
humans as
research
participants?
 Yes No  
Impact assessment (mandatory)
Will any phase of the
proposed research take
place outdoors?
 Yes No  
Sensitive Technology Research Areas
Will the proposed
research and related
activities funded by this
grant aim to advance any
of the listed STRAs?
(required)
 Yes No  
Note: If you answered "Yes" to the above question, you must complete and attach Attestation for Research Aiming to
Advance Sensitive Technology Research Areas forms to your grant application — in the STRAC Attestation Attachment
section — to comply with the policy.
If you answered “No”, you will not need to take any further steps under this policy.
Keywords (mandatory)
 
Housing, Homelessness, Social Policy, Policy Analysis, Planning, Mixed Methods, Digital
Infrastructure, AI, Intersectional Theory, Knowledge Mobilization
Disciplines (mandatory)
 
1. Urban and Regional Studies, Environmental Studies  Urban Planning 
2. Natural Sciences and Engineering Computer and Information Science and
Operations Research 
3. Geography Urban Geography 
Personal information will be stored in the Personal Information Bank for the appropriate program.
PROTECTED B WHEN COMPLETED

Areas of research (mandatory)
 
1. Housing 
2. Social development and welfare
3. Science and technology
Temporal periods
 
FromFrom ToTo
YearYear PeriodPeriod YearYear PeriodPeriod
1. 2026     AD 2028     AD
2.                   
 
Geographical regions
 
1. North America
2. 
3. 
Countries
 
1. Canada
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
Revisions since previous application
Over the past eight months our team has developed an initial version of the CivicInquire platform 
(www.civicinquire.uwaterloo.ca/search) and have been beta testing the performance and functionality of the platform and 
some of its core features (e.g., policy database search engine). However, work to-date has only resulted in our team 
creating a proof-of-concept for the CivicInquire platform. CivicInquire has not yet been comprehensively or formally 
reviewed for its comprehensiveness, communication clarity, information relevance, or user experience, nor has it been used 
for academic research. These activities are the primary focus and objectives of this proposed project.
Summary of proposal
Homelessness, a downstream result of structural inequity across multiple systems including housing, healthcare, and
planning, has major impacts on community cohesion, development, justice, and health, and is growing in Canada. Recent
polling has reported that Canadians view the country’s current direction regarding homelessness as being overwhelmingly
negative, with >70% indicating homelessness is ‘a growing issue.’ In response, all levels of government have mobilized to
combat homelessness; for instance, federal spending on homelessness programs has increased 374% over the past 10
years, while municipalities across the country have begun developing and implementing various types of homelessness
prevention and affordable housing policies. Despite these efforts, Canadian cities continue to grapple with homeless
encampments while trying to provide services for local unhoused populations. Given the extreme diversity of Canadian
municipalities (e.g., large metropolitan cities, growing mid-sized municipalities, rural/northern/remote communities), the
absence of shared tools and infrastructure to systematically examine, compare, and learn from homelessness policies
across Canada’s highly diverse municipal contexts represents a serious challenge that warrants attention. 
The proposed multi-methods research uses machine learning (ML), artificial intelligence (AI), and qualitative key informant
interviews to develop and evaluate a novel online, interactive platform for homelessness policy across Canada (i.e.,
CivicInquire). CivicInquire will leverage web-crawling and web-scraping capabilities to create a national homelessness
policy database, a national policy dashboard, and multiple interactive visualization tools to present policy information for
Personal information will be stored in the Personal Information Bank for the appropriate program.
PROTECTED B WHEN COMPLETED

academics, advocates, planners and health practitioners, municipal decision-makers, and the public. The proposed project
has three research objectives. First (Objective 1; O1), we will evaluate and build upon a prototype of the CivicInquire
platform (www.civicinquire.com) that our team has developed in recent months by conducting a global quality evaluation to
assess its content, design, organization, and user-friendliness. Second (O2), we will construct a web scraping tool to
identify and download all homelessness and housing policies and strategies from Canadian municipalities (N~1000) using
the CivicInquire platform. Here, we will develop an ML algorithm designed to analyze the policy intensity (e.g., alignment in
scope, strategies, goals/outcomes) of the collected data. Third (O3), we will conduct a critical discourse analysis of how key
municipal stakeholders interpret the current state of homelessness and housing policy development, implementation, and
impact in Canada with ~40 participants from diverse municipal contexts. 
The CivcInquire platform will serve as a foundation for accelerating Canadian leadership in homelessness and housing
policy research and action. Specifically, the open-access policy database, data visualization tools, and national dashboard
will make CivicInquire the leading platform to support well-aligned, multisectoral, and effective policy approaches to the
structural and systems-level prevention of homelessness in diverse Canadian communities. We anticipate that Canadian
municipalities will use our platform to inform the development of their own policies, while researchers can use our platform
and its open-access database to conduct future cutting-edge research exploring homelessness and/or housing policy
impacts on multiple important outcomes. Our partners will help to facilitate our KMb plan in diverse municipal contexts
including Toronto (large metro city), the Region of Waterloo (mid-sized, rural municipalities) and Nunavut (northern,
remote communities). 
Roles and responsibilities
Our interdisciplinary team possess expertise and experience in homelessness policy and action, public health research, 
urban planning (O1-O3), machine learning and quantitative methods (O2), and qualitative and interview methods (O3), 
and health and social policy (O1-O3).  
NPA Minaker (20% contribution) is an Associate Professor in the School of Planning (SoP) and is the Director of the Future 
Cities Institute (FCI) at the University of Waterloo (UW). As the nominated principal applicant (NPA), she will schedule and 
chair monthly meetings with the collective research team to discuss ongoing work and updates, as well as future directions 
and project milestones; oversee the team’s progress toward the achievement of project objectives (O1-O3) with respect to 
agreed upon work timelines, deliverables, and trainee supervision; assist in the writing/reviewing of the manuscripts and 
dissemination of the findings (O2-O3); and advise on the recruitment, data collection, data analysis for O2-O3. She will 
also lead the supervision of all co-op students on the project. 
Collaborator Gash (5% contribution; Toronto Shelter Network, TSN) is Executive Director of the TSN and a Registered 
Professional Planner with >30 years experience in stakeholder engagement and community development in the non-profit 
and public housing sectors. As a collaborator, Ms. Gash will contribute through participating in monthly team meetings, 
assisting the research team in capturing relevant criteria in the development of the policy intensity machine learning (ML) 
algorithm (O2), facilitating the recruitment of participants for the qualitative interviews through her existing work networks 
(O3), advising on interpretation of qualitative data (as appropriate) (O3), and support the knowledge mobilization (KMb) 
plan.  
Collaborator McEvoy (5% contribution; Region of Waterloo, RoW) is the Manager of Housing Policy & Homelessness 
Prevention at the RoW and is responsible for implementing the Region’s Plan to End Chronic Homelessness. He will 
participate in monthly team meetings to advise and guide the research team on refining research questions (O1), as well 
as elements of homelessness policy that are most relevant to capture from the perspective of mid-sized and rural 
municipalities (O2-O3). Additionally, he will support the recruitment of participants for the qualitative interviews (O3) 
through connecting the team with the Canadian Alliance to End Homelessness, and be involved in the KMb plans. 
Co-A Butt (5% contribution) is an Assistant Professor at UW and a Canada Research Chair with expertise in digital and 
spatial epidemiology, homelessness, and health informatics. He will contribute to the project primarily though participating 
in monthly research team meetings, assisting in student supervision on O2, as well as advising and supporting the 
quantitative methods and analyses of O2 (e.g., development of the policy intensity ML algorithm (O2)) and O3 (e.g., 
interview topic). He will also advise on specifics of the tool development of O3 (i.e., interview guide questions, probes) and 
assist with manuscript writing/reviewing.  
Co-A Buttazzoni (15% contribution) is an SSHRC PDF in the SoP at UW with expertise in qualitative methods, health policy, 
and urban planning. He will principally contribute to O1 and O3 via supporting the platform testing and evaluation analysis 
Personal information will be stored in the Personal Information Bank for the appropriate program.
PROTECTED B WHEN COMPLETED

(O1) and co-leading O3 and thus overseeing tool development (i.e., interview guide), recruitment, data collection and 
analysis, and manuscript writing. He will also assist with O2 through advising on policy intensity analysis matters related to 
data collection and aggregation (O2), as well as provide secondary supervision of the co-op students working on O1 and 
O3. 
Co-A Chen (15% contribution) is an Associate Professor in Public Health Sciences at UW with expertise in AI for public and 
population health, AI learning for health systems, and information systems design and management. Her primary 
contributions will be delivered through serving as the co-lead researcher for O1 and O2, and a primary supervisor of all 
involved trainees. She will also lead the team in the development and implementation of the policy intensity ML algorithm, 
supervise and advise all team members involved in the data scraping and aggregating, the policy intensity analysis (O2), 
and writing/reviewing of academic articles (O2-O3). She will also help with the supervision of students working on O1 and 
O3. 
Co-A Glover (8% contribution) is a Professor in the Department of Recreation and Leisure Studies at UW and the Director 
of the Healthy Communities Research Network. He has expertise concerning social infrastructure, placemaking, municipal 
policy analysis, the social impacts of urban planning, and advancing healthy communities through evidence-informed policy 
recommendations. His primary contributions will be attending monthly team meetings and supporting all research activities 
related to O3 (e.g., advising on data collection, participant recruitment, interpretation of findings), as well as helping to 
supervising the co-op student helping on O3.  
Co-A Layton (7% contribution) is the Canada 150 Research Chair in Mathematical Biology and Medicine, and Professor of 
Applied Mathematics, Computer Science, Pharmacy and Biology at UW. She has expertise in the development and 
application of data-driven models to understand physiology and pathophysiology health outcomes. She will contribute 
through participating in monthly research team meetings, advising on the quantitative methods and analyses of O2, 
providing supervisory support for trainees working on O1 and O2, in addition to assisting in manuscript writing/reviewing. 
She will also help with supervision of students in O1 and O2. 
Co-A Mazumder (5% contribution) is a PDF at the FCI at UW, and a former occupational therapist with direct experience 
working with vulnerable populations, including PEH. Leveraging this experience, as well as his expertise with ML 
applications for urban analytics, he will contribute through co-leading O2 (e.g., development of the policy intensity ML 
algorithm), supporting research activities related to O1 and O3 (e.g., interpretation of findings, manuscript 
writing/revising), and the supervision of co-op students working on O2.  
Co-A Miranda (10% contribution) is a PhD candidate in the School of Public Health Sciences at UW with expertise in 
bioinformatics, digital health, and software engineering. He will be the lead designer and engineer that will co-lead all O1 
activities (e.g., policy database search engine updated, embedding of interactive policy maps). He will also support all 
aspects of the data collection and analyses for O2 (e.g., framing/interpretation of findings). He will also help with academic 
article writing/reviewing and the supervision of co-op students working on O1 and O2.
Roles and training of students
Pursuant to the methodological outline in the main application, one upper-year Math co-op student with experience in web 
development will assist with O1, two upper-year Math co-op students with experience in machine learning will assist with 
O2, and one upper-year co-op Planning student with expertise in qualitative methods will support all research activities 
related to O3. All hired trainees will serve as co-op students hired by the FCI, be directly supervised by FCI faculty 
associates (i.e., NPA, Co-As), and will be provided one-term (i.e., 4 month) co-op education opportunities that will be 
centred on gaining real-world work experiences related to urban planning, public health, data analytics for decision-
making, policy analyses, and/or research methods. As such, our team will afford these students a number of opportunities 
to develop different applied research (e.g., qualitative data collection and analysis in O3), technical (e.g., digital platform 
development, evaluation in O1), knowledge mobilization (e.g., KMb tool/resource and digital infrastructure development in 
O1, partnership development across all stages) and communication (e.g., site/platform updates to the team during 
meetings) skills that they can use during their future academic endeavours.  
More specifically, regarding O1, the co-op student will be tasked with undertaking several technical tasks that will 
intellectually challenge them with respect to evolving their initiative, time management, problem solving, and programming 
skills. Importantly, these two co-op students will be involved in developing and implementing programming strategies to 
support search engine optimization for the policy database (e.g., advanced search functions/MeSH term options), as well as 
adding suggested search filters (e.g., dropdown boxes for year-specific results, exclusion/inclusion features related to 
Personal information will be stored in the Personal Information Bank for the appropriate program.
PROTECTED B WHEN COMPLETED

source material) to the platform’s database search; improving web crawling and web scraping ML tools that are central to 
the collection and aggregation of policy information from online sources, in addition to the completion of monthly updates 
to keep the policy database current; and creating and implemented requested resource-specific aides (e.g., FAQ tab, 
search result export functions) that seek to improve user experience. Such experiences should complement their academic 
training through providing multiple tasks that will develop their technical and problem-solving skills in direct relation to 
data and computational methods being leveraged for local decision-making processes. 
Concerning O3, this co-op student will be foremost responsible for fulfilling duties related to academic research and 
knowledge mobilization (KMb) to varied target audiences (e.g., planners, local economic development officials, public 
health practitioners). Particular tasks will involve data collection via interviews and qualitative analysis via inductive 
thematic methodologies, advising on interview guide legibility/suitability, and developing article/study brief findings to 
disseminate to participants and collaborators. Subsequent KMb activities related to the objective will involve the student 
interacting with and presenting data visualizations and interactive tool (e.g., policy maps on the platform) overviews to 
interdisciplinary audiences of planners, public health practitioners, and municipal decision-makers.  
This work will be intended to complement the co-op student’s academic training through providing them ‘real world’ 
research experiences that will familiarize them with primary research process, the process and limitation of knowledge 
generation, and examples of applied (i.e., working directly with knowledge users) KMb strategies.
Knowledge mobilization plan
CivicInquire serves as our central knowledge mobilization vehicle and features an open-access policy database, interactive 
maps, data visualizations, and a national dashboard. We commit to updating CivicInquire annually for at least five years 
post-grant, ensuring sustained impact as policies evolve. Primary audiences include municipal policymakers and planners 
using CivicInquire for evidence-based policy development; researchers accessing our database for interdisciplinary 
research; and non-governmental organizations advocating for homelessness prevention. 
Our broader knowledge mobilization strategy emphasizes a bidirectional process of sustained engagement and iterative 
communication between our research team and knowledge users (KUs) and prioritizes co-creation throughout all phases to 
ensure research results are accessible, actionable and align Canada's homelessness and housing policy across diverse 
municipalities. 
In O1, KUs (researchers, advocates, planners, and municipal representatives) will provide feedback on platform design. In 
O2, we will collaborate with partners from Toronto, Waterloo Region, and Nunavut to develop the ML algorithm driving 
policy intensity analyses. In O3, we will engage KUs through interviews exploring policy gaps and opportunities.  
Traditional outputs include peer-reviewed manuscripts and academic conferences. Non-traditional dissemination targets 
decision-makers through presentations to the Federation of Canadian Municipalities and the Association of Municipalities of 
Ontario, with partners' networks amplifying reach across diverse contexts. 
By grounding platform development in iterative co-design with KUs, CivicInquire will be more meaningful and responsive to 
real-world needs, ultimately supporting vulnerable Canadians through evidence-informed, multisectoral approaches to 
preventing chronic homelessness.
Expected outcomes
Scholarly benefits
 
1. Enhanced research collaboration 
2. Enhanced research methods
3. Knowledge creation/intellectual outcomes 
Summary of expected scholarly outcomes
Personal information will be stored in the Personal Information Bank for the appropriate program.
PROTECTED B WHEN COMPLETED

Our team will develop a sustainable AI-powered, data-aggregating, online homelessness policy platform (i.e., CivicInquire) 
with a national policy database and dashboard, which will be updated with new reviews, data visualization tools, and other 
knowledge mobilization (KMb) materials for researchers across the social sciences. The CivicInquire policy database will be 
updated on a monthly basis (via web-crawling, data-scraping tools) and maintained on an ongoing basis to ensure its 
accuracy, relevance, and timeliness for researchers and advocates in the knowledge-generating space. The analyses of O2 
(policy intensity review) and O3 (policy discourse analysis) will offer researchers a novel quantification of homelessness 
policy alignment in reference to multiple intersectional considerations, and which will be relevant to communities across 
Canada (O2), and critical discussions of multisectoral contributions to current policy gaps and opportunities to remedy such 
shortfalls (O3).
Societal benefits
 
1. Enhanced policy 
2. New or enhanced collaborations, partnerships
3. Enriched public discourse
Summary of expected societal outcomes
The developed CivicInquire platform is being intentionally designed as a free-to-use resource such that any individual or 
organization interested in or working on homelessness issues in Canada may use it. Working with the Future Cities 
Institute, who will maintain and update the platform, this project is intended to facilitate improved study of homelessness 
in Canada, as well as inform public discussion and knowledge on this issue. Additionally, dissemination about the 
CivicInquire platform and its features, tools, and KMb resources will be promoted by our collaborators through their 
professional networks, resulting in knowledge of this project among actors in large metropolitan, mid-size, small city, rural, 
and remote/northern communities. Conference presentations to non-academic (e.g., Federation of Canadian Municipalities) 
and academic (e.g., Association of Collegiate Schools of Planning) groups will encourage multisector teams to leverage the 
platform for their future work.
Audiences
 
1. Canadian government 
Municipal government 
2. Practitioner/professional/industrial associations
3. Academic sector/peers
4. Not-for-profit/community organizations
5. General public
Summary of benefits to potential target audiences
CivicInquire will be a free-to-use platform available to users from all relevant fields across Canada. Multisector 
collaborations of policymakers, practitioners, and advocates can leverage CivicInquire to develop suitably aligned, 
comprehensive, and effective policy that address the multilevel governance barriers to the prevention of homelessness in 
diverse Canadian communities. Researchers may use CivicInquire to identify novel social change policy topics for study, or 
to build interdisciplinary research teams investigating relevant wellbeing and support issues, such as recurrent 
homelessness experience prevention or effective affordable housing solutions that stabilize PEH living circumstances. 
Collaborations between policymakers, practitioners, and researchers may also use the research (e.g., O3) and reviews 
(e.g., O2) to identify local topics in need of further study and/or to deliberate on with respect to addressing policy 
alignment (e.g., consistency in objectives).
Funds requested from SSHRC
Personal information will be stored in the Personal Information Bank for the appropriate program.
PROTECTED B WHEN COMPLETED

Year 1
Personnel Costs
Student Salaries and
Benefits/Stipends Number Amount Justification
Undergraduate
3 $61,050.00 Includes 3 upper year math co-op students at $30/h x
35h/week x 17 weeks + 14% vacation pay =
$20,350/student. CO-OP 1 (Sept-Dec 26) will support
activities related to O1 (See detailed description, Section
2.1). CO-OP 2 (Jan-Apr 27) and CO-OP 3 (May-Aug 27)
will support activities related to O2 (See detailed
description, section 2.2).
Masters
Doctoral
Subtotal $61,050.00
Non-Student Salaries Number Amount Justification
Postdoctoral
Professional/Technical
Services
1 $15,000.00 Includes the cost of a software developer (0.1 FTE) to
oversee maintenance and continuous development of the
data server and supporting infrastructure.
Other
Subtotal $15,000.00
Travel and
Subsistence Costs
for Research
Number Amount Justification
Applicant/Team
Members
Student(s)
Subtotal $0.00
Travel and
Subsistence Costs
for Dissemination
Number Amount Justification
Applicant/Team
Members
Student(s)
Subtotal $0.00
Other Expenses Amount Justification
Supplies
Personal information will be stored in the Personal Information Bank for the appropriate program.
PROTECTED B WHEN COMPLETED

Non-disposable
equipment
Subtotal $0.00
Grand Total Year 1 $76,050.00
Year 2
Personnel Costs
Student Salaries and
Benefits/Stipends Number Amount Justification
Undergraduate
1 $17,000.00 Includes 1 upper year planning co-op students at $25/h x
35h/week x 17 weeks + 14% vacation pay =
$17,000/student. CO-OP 4 (Sept-Dec 27) will support
activities related to O3 (See detailed description, Section
2.3).
Masters
Doctoral
Subtotal $17,000.00
Non-Student Salaries Number Amount Justification
Postdoctoral
Professional/Technical
Services
Other
Subtotal $0.00
Travel and
Subsistence Costs
for Research
Number Amount Justification
Applicant/Team
Members
2 $5,000.00 Money will be used to cover partial costs for 2 team
members to attend either the Federation of Canadian
Municipalities conference and/or the Association of
Municipalities of Ontario conference. The remainder of
costs will be covered by researchers on the team as per
agreements and previous practice.
Student(s)
Subtotal $5,000.00
Travel and
Subsistence Costs
for Dissemination
Number Amount Justification
Personal information will be stored in the Personal Information Bank for the appropriate program.
PROTECTED B WHEN COMPLETED

Applicant/Team
Members
1 $1,950.00 Money will be used to cover the fees associated with
submitting/publishing scholarly manuscripts. The request
for funds associated with Open Access Publication fees are
minimal, given that researchers on our team will
contribute additional funds as per our team's agreements
and previous practice.
Student(s)
Subtotal $1,950.00
Other Expenses Amount Justification
Supplies
Non-disposable
equipment
Subtotal $0.00
Grand Total Year 2 $23,950.00
Grand Total $100,000.00
Funds from other sources
Funding SourceFunding Source Contribution TypeContribution Type ConfirmedConfirmed Year 1Year 1 Year 2Year 2 TotalTotal
$0.00
DetailsDetails
$0.00
DetailsDetails
$0.00
DetailsDetails
Grand TotalGrand Total $0.00$0.00
Reviewer exclusion (if applicable)
Excluded reviewers
Exclusion TypeExclusion Type Family Name /Family Name /
CollaborationCollaboration First NameFirst Name InitialsInitialsOrganizationOrganization DepartmentDepartment EmailEmail
No records to display.
Personal information will be stored in the Personal Information Bank for the appropriate program.
PROTECTED B WHEN COMPLETED

1. CONTEXT & OBJECTIVES: 
Lifetime data indicate more than one in ten (11.2%) Canadians—or approximately 1.7 
million people—have experienced some form of homelessness,1 with annual estimates 
suggesting roughly 235,000 Canadians are affected each year .2 These numbers are projected to 
grow3 with profound consequences for individual health, public systems, and community 
wellbeing. As multiple structural systems (e.g., economic, health, political, planning) struggle to 
effectively respond,4 Canadians view the country’s current direction negatively, with >70% 
recognizing homelessness as ‘a growing issue.’5 People experiencing homelessness (PEH) face 
substantially elevated risks of depression, drug use,6 external cause mortality, and infections 
(e.g., Hep C) from intravenous drug use,7 and also report greater emergency department usage.8 
These risks generate significant social and economic costs for municipalities and healthcare 
systems alike. In Toronto alone, the healthcare costs of homelessness are an estimated $69.8-99.7 
million annually.9 
In response, all levels of government have mobilized to address homelessness. Federally, 
the National Housing Strategy Act was passed in 201910 with the aim to support and monitor the 
right to housing in Canada,11 while Infrastructure Canada has spent an estimated $561 million 
annually on homelessness programs, an increase of 374% over the prior 10 years.12 Provincially, 
Manitoba has developed a new initiative for vulnerable populations,13 while New Brunswick has 
established a “Housing for All” strategy centered on supporting low-income populations and 
reducing housing waitlists.14 Locally, communities of all sizes have implemented affordable and 
public housing strategies, as is the case in New Westminster,15 Saskatoon,16 and Vancouver.17 
Despite the proliferation of policy responses, Canada lacks a systematic way to examine, 
compare, and learn from homelessness policies across jurisdictions. Commonly cited issues 
include poor coordination,18 a lack of long-term commitment from central institutions, 
inadequate targets,19 and a dearth of resources/strategies designed to stabilize PEH and/or reduce 
their risk of recurrent experiences.20 As homelessness is estimated to cost the national economy 
~$7 billion annually,21 and long-term analyses argue that the relative inaction over recent decades 
has cost Canada nearly $50 billion,22 there is a pressing need to develop effective and 
coordinated homeless policy in Canada.  
The multi-scale, -system, and -causal nature of homelessness in Canada presents a 
‘wicked problem’—a vast and complex issue lacking a clear solution23—for policymakers, 
practitioners, and researchers. Effectively addressing ‘wicked problems’ like homelessness (i.e., 
“the situation of an individual, family or community without stable, safe, permanent, appropriate 
housing, or the immediate prospect, means and ability of acquiring it”24) requires policy 
precision and responsiveness, as well as coordination across multiple fields and services.25 In 
Canada, a central and underexamined challenge is the absence of tools and infrastructure to 
systematically understand the nation’s homelessness policy landscape. To support such policy 
precision and alignment, coordinated action, and a more comprehensive long-term vision for 
homelessness in Canada, this project aims to build and optimize Canada’s first publicly 
accessible, interdisciplinary, and artificial intelligence- (AI) powered digital homelessness 
infrastructure (i.e., CivicInquire). Our project will develop this platform to encourage evidence-
based, aligned, and effective social policymaking, as well as interdisciplinary social science 
research on homelessness through three objectives: 
Objective 1 (O1): develop and optimize an interactive digital platform (CivicInquire) that web-
crawls, aggregates, and presents data from homelessness policies, strategies, and webpages. This 
objective will establish the foundational research infrastructure necessary to make homelessness 
policy visible, comparable, and analyzable across jurisdictions, which is a necessary to enable 
theory-informed governance research. 
Objective 2 (O2): develop a machine learning (ML) tool to analyze the policy intensity of the 
Canadian municipal policies and strategies related to homelessness/housing as collected in O1, 
thereby enabling comparative analysis across municipal types. This objective will translate 
policy intensity from an abstract concept into a measurable construct that allows social scientists 
to examine variation, alignment, and institutional commitment in homelessness governance. 
Personal information will be stored in the Personal Information Bank for the appropriate program.
PROTECTED B WHEN COMPLETED

Objective 3 (O3): conduct a critical discourse analysis of stakeholder views on homelessness 
policy and its in/direct role(s) in creating, sustaining, and growing/lessening inequities to 
examine not only what homelessness policies do across Canada, but how they are understood, 
justified, and enacted by those responsible for them. This objective will situate the computational 
findings of O2 within lived policy interpretation to reveal how governance actors understand, 
justify, and enact homelessness policy in practice. 
2. METHODOLOGY & TIMELINES: 
2.1 CivicInquire Development, Testing, and Optimization (O1: Sep/26-Dec/26): Having 
developed a prototype online policy platform (www.civicinquire.com), the aim of O1 will be to 
optimize (i.e., technical functionality, efficiency of the web-crawling, data aggregation, and data 
visualization tools) the platform. In partnership with the Future Cities Institute (FCI) at the 
University of Waterloo (UW), which will host, maintain, and annually update the platform for a 
period of at least 5 years, NPA Minaker, and Co-As Chen, Miranda, Layton, and Buttazzoni, will 
oversee this objective and supervise one upper-year Math co-op student with experience in web 
development and computer programming via a two-step process.  
CivicInquire Platform Performance Testing, Launch (Step 1): We will ensure functionality, 
usefulness, performance, responsiveness, and security of the CivicInquire prototype platform 
before officially making it publicly accessible. Prior to evaluation, CivicInquire will be 
implemented as a modular, service-oriented platform that separates data acquisition, processing, 
and user-facing services to support iterative improvement without disrupting live access. The 
core pipeline will include ethical, rate-limited acquisition of publicly available policy documents 
and related municipal artifacts; automated text normalization, deduplication, and metadata 
enrichment; storage in an open-format analytics layer following a “lakehouse” pattern to support 
both BI and research workloads26; and indexed services that power search, filtering, and analytic 
views for knowledge users. To strengthen transparency, reproducibility, and re-use, CivicInquire 
will implement machine-readable metadata and provenance tracking at the document and 
transformation level. Core metadata fields will include source jurisdiction, publication date, 
retrieval timestamp, canonical URL, document type, language, and a version identifier that 
captures updates to the source content. Provenance will be recorded using a standardized 
provenance model so that downstream analyses can be traced to specific inputs and processing 
steps.27 
Our evaluation will use an established global quality evaluation framework for digital platforms 
to assess the content, design, organization and user-friendliness of our prototype.28 Specifically, 
we will measure our prototype against the following criteria in each of these four domains: (a) 
content (i.e., characteristics of platform information; e.g., ensuring up-to-date information, and 
accuracy of sources, establishing the credibility of the platform29), (b) design (i.e., platform 
design and ability to attract and engage users; e.g., appropriateness of site for users, 
multimedia/varied data sources/data visualization30), (c) organization (i.e., platform grouping, 
categorization, or structure of information; e.g., clear indexing/easy navigation of information, 
functional links/tools29), and (d) user-friendliness (i.e., platform responsiveness, reliability; e.g., 
consistent usability, trusted security, cross-browser support31). Web-crawler development, web 
scraping tool (content), data aggregation, visualization (content, design, organization), and policy 
database search functionality and filtering (organization), and embedding the platform (i.e., our 
host website; design, organization, user-friendliness) will also be completed during step 1.  
During optimization and evaluation, accessibility will be integrated into front-end design and 
testing to ensure the platform is usable by diverse stakeholders, including people with disabilities 
and varying levels of digital literacy. The interface will be evaluated against Web Content 
Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.2, including keyboard navigation, meaningful headings and 
labels, sufficient color contrast, and error prevention and recovery patterns.32 Accessibility issues 
will be tracked as part of quality assurance so that improvements are measurable and sustained 
across releases. Additionally, all web collection activities will follow an ethics- and compliance-
informed protocol tailored to social science research. The crawler will implement explicit rate 
limiting, exponential backoff, and operational safeguards to minimize load and reduce the 
Personal information will be stored in the Personal Information Bank for the appropriate program.
PROTECTED B WHEN COMPLETED

likelihood of access disruption. The protocol will include systematic documentation of source 
constraints (including terms of service and redistribution limitations where applicable), and 
internal checks to avoid collection of personal data unless explicitly required and ethically 
justified. This approach reflects evidence-informed guidance for legally and ethically responsible 
web scraping and the role that platform governance (including terms of service) plays in 
regulating data collection methods.33,34 
CivicInquire Platform Knowledge User Group Review (Step 2): Once the reviewed and 
updated prototype website has met the global quality evaluation and features a working database 
of policies and with associated knowledge mobilization (KMb) tools, our team and collaborators 
will share the platform via our networks (e.g., FCI community partners) to encourage 
researchers, advocates (N=50), planners, health practitioners,  municipalities (N=>100) across 
Canada to use the platform and provide feedback. Access to the platform’s policy database, 
infographics, data visuals (e.g., comparative radar charts), and mapping tools (e.g., choropleth 
maps showing spatial variation in policy intensity) will be provided to all user groups to solicit 
feedback that will be collected and analyzed alongside the global evaluation framework and used 
to further update the platform prior to the ensuing objectives (i.e., O2 and O3).  
2.2 CivicInquire Homelessness Policy Intensity Review (O2: Jan/27-Aug/27): To build the 
credibility of the platform as a source of information (from O1), we will complete a policy 
intensity analysis and publish results on CivicInquire. Quantitative policy analyses can allow 
municipalities to monitor policy effectiveness and improve systems.35 Relative to manual 
methods, machine learning (ML)-assisted policy analysis have been found to be more efficient 
and objective.36 O2 will develop a ML algorithm to conduct an evaluation of “policy intensity,” 
which is a core determinant of policy effectiveness and can serve as a foundation for policy 
impact evaluation. Policy intensity indicates the extent of regulatory intervention in a specific 
policy area, assessing the extent to which policies are enforced (highly relevant to homelessness 
policies). High policy intensity is achieved when a policy is specialized and has detailed 
measures. Policy intensity is considered a continuous indicator, providing insights into policies 
and enabling policymakers to make necessary adjustments for more effective goal attainment, an 
important functionality to assess progress on addressing homelessness.36 NPA Minaker and Co-
As Chen, Miranda, Mazumder, Layton, and Butt will supervise two upper-year Math students 
with ML expertise during O2.  
Policy intensity is a framework35, that that weighs complex policy instruments according 
to criteria (e.g., measurable policy targets, budgets, clear objectives and timelines, policy 
monitoring35–39). We will work with partners from three diverse municipal contexts engaged in 
homelessness prevention and action to ensure we capture relevant criteria in the development of 
the policy intensity ML algorithm for municipalities across Canada: the Toronto Shelter Network 
(large metropolitan city) and the Region of Waterloo Community Services (mid-sized and rural 
municipalities). We are also working with the City of Iqaluit on a number of projects and look 
forward to engaging them in this process (remote, northern communities – partnership pending). 
Our team will apply an intersectional lens40 to the ML algorithm to examine the extent to which 
and how policies address diverse components of homelessness policy (e.g., sex/gender). 
Responsible AI documentation will be produced for both specific data and large language policy 
models. The curated corpus will be accompanied by a structured dataset datasheet describing 
policy or strategy objective motivation, composition, collection processes, recommended uses, 
and limitations.41 Each model will include a model card documenting, for each web-crawled 
policy or strategy, the stated objective(s), evaluation procedure(s), performance by relevant 
subgroups, and known risks or failure modes, supporting transparent communication to partners 
and decision-makers and reducing the risk of misuse in contexts for which the model is not well 
suited.42 
Policy Data Collection and Aggregation (Step 1): Using our prototype platform hosted on 
www.civicinquire.com and our developed web-scraping tool (run by beautifulsoup4 in Python), 
we will collect and aggregate publicly available homeless/housing policy and strategy data (e.g., 
from municipal websites, legal databases, regulatory repositories [e.g., by-laws, housing 
Personal information will be stored in the Personal Information Bank for the appropriate program.
PROTECTED B WHEN COMPLETED

strategies related to homelessness]) from 2000-2026 from municipalities (N=3,573) and 
provincial/territorial governments (N=13) across Canada. Based on our pilot work, we estimate 
retrieving at least 1000 relevant municipal documents. Policies will subsequently be categorized 
by title (specialized [e.g., “Homelessness Reduction Plan”] or comprehensive [e.g., “Urban 
Development Strategy”]), by document type (based on legal status - legislation, municipal 
regulations) and by theme (e.g., emergency shelters, transitional housing, services).   
Policy Intensity Structure and Machine Learning Integration (Step 2): The policy intensity 
dimensions will be co-created with our partners who have extensive knowledge and experience 
related to homelessness in Canada. Intensity dimensions (e.g., measurable targets) will first be 
selected. Our team will then create scoring metrics specifically for the: i) policy title (using a 
regular expression algorithm, keywords related to homelessness and affordable housing will be 
identified; titles with certain terms will receive higher intensity scores), ii) document type (scores 
based on the types of the document [e.g., laws, guidelines]; higher scores assigned to legally 
binding documents), iii) policy measures (ML tools will evaluate how detailed measures are 
within a policy; documents with precise plans, timelines, and specific goals will receive higher 
scores), iv) implementation (scores based on the extent to which a document details a 
implementation plan; more detailed plans receive higher scores), and v) level of alignment 
(municipal policies will be assessed for relevant provincial/territorial and federal 
homelessness/housing strategy/policy links; more aligned policies receive higher scores). Next, 
we will further integrate ML into the policy intensity process to assist with text processing, 
scoring policy measures, and classifiers. During text processing, policy texts are cleaned by 
removing irrelevant content; in this step, we will create an ML that will develop a homelessness-
specific lexicon (e.g., “supportive housing”). Regarding policy measures, documents will be 
scored using Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA)43 to extract key topics (e.g., housing, health, 
shelters) and evaluate the specificity of measures. The LDA will provide a transparent baseline 
for discovering recurring policy themes and their evolution over time.44  Where topic coherence 
or interpretability is limited by short texts or technical language, transformer-based sentence 
embeddings will be evaluated to support clustering and semantic retrieval that better reflects 
policy meaning rather than surface word overlap.45 
Finally, to train the model, we will use Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost46), a powerful 
classifier that combines several basic classifiers with varying weights into a strong classifier, and 
outperforms other classifiers in policy intensity research.36 We will use common metrics, 
including accuracy, precision, recall, and F1-score (the harmonic average of recall and precision) 
to evaluate the performance36 of our classifier models. Interpretability will be integrated to 
support trust, policy relevance, and error diagnosis. Feature attribution methods based on 
Shapley values will be used to explain which inputs drive classification decisions, to identify 
spurious signals (e.g., jurisdiction-specific boilerplate), and to inform targeted improvements to 
both the codebook and the feature engineering strategy.47 
Policy Intensity Calculation (Step 3): Last, we will calculate policy intensity by combining the 
scores from the three dimensions, where: intensityt = ∑( typej × titlej × measurej), j=1. As policy 
intensity is associated with policy impact in prior research,35–38 O2 activities will result in a large 
and state-of-the-art dataset of policy intensity scores for homelessness policies in Canada.  
2.3 Homelessness Policy Discourse Analysis (O3: Sep/27-Jun/28): To encourage 
interdisciplinary research, create novel and relevant information for practitioners and policy-
makers, an upper-year co-op Planning student with expertise in discourse analysis will work 
under the supervision of NPA Minaker, and Co-As Glover and Buttazzoni. The aim of O3 will be 
to examine how stakeholders discursively construct homelessness as a policy problem, assign 
responsibility across sectors and scales, and define what constitutes ‘effective’ or ‘aligned’ policy 
action. Here, O3 does not simply contextualize policy intensity scores; it reveals how 
homelessness policy is interpreted, justified, and contested by actors operating within different 
institutional and professional logics. 
Recruitment and Eligibility (Step 1): Purposive sampling methods will be used to recruit an 
information-rich48 multisectoral sample of stakeholders (n=~40) representing five sectors: 
Personal information will be stored in the Personal Information Bank for the appropriate program.
PROTECTED B WHEN COMPLETED

municipal decision makers, planning or public health practitioners, advocates, scholars, and 
developers. Eligible participants will be currently involved in addressing homelessness and/or 
providing affordable housing in Canada. To discuss homelessness in rural/remote, mid-sized, and 
metropolitan contexts, we will stratify recruitment through collaborator networks. 
Data Collection (Step 2): We will conduct ~40 (~8 participants per sector: municipal decision 
makers, planning and public health practitioners, advocates, scholars, and developers) 30–60-
minute semi-structured virtual interviews with key stakeholders from across Canada. Semi-
structured interviews allow for comparability across conversations (e.g., consistent framing 
questions) and capturing specific insights in response to participant-specific probes.49 Our 
interview guide will be informed by the results of O2. For example, framing questions will 
inquire about the types of homelessness policies present in the respective communities of, or the 
current state of sectoral knowledge germane to, participants; the extent to which local policies 
align with provincial, territorial, federal policies and/or strategies that participants are familiar 
with; and the participants’ perspectives of the different role(s) and responsibilities of diverse 
sectors in contributing to effective, evidence-based, and aligned homelessness policies.  
Data Analysis (Step 3): After the interviews, our analysis will be guided by intersectional 
theory40 to conduct a critical discourse analysis (i.e., analyzing role(s) of discourse in the 
(re)production and challenge of social power via institutions/elites/groups that result in 
disparities).50 Our discourse analysis will aim to systematically and comparatively investigate51  
the distinct ways stakeholders from multiple sectors: i) understand homelessness in their 
jurisdiction and sector, and the primary contributing policy factors that have created, maintained, 
and/or exacerbated or reduced the conditions (e.g., social, political, economic) contributing to 
priority contemporary homelessness/housing issues; ii) express shared assumptions (implicit, 
explicit) about the roles and responsibilities of their sector’s professional beliefs and practices 
with respect to current policy gaps/limitations (esp. intersectional topics e.g., mental health); and 
iii) propose actions and initiatives to promote aligned effective policy to end homelessness. 
Findings will be compared to the results of O2 (quantitative policy intensity analysis) to examine 
how current municipal, provincial, and federal homelessness policy in Canada is perceived by 
key stakeholders across housing/homelessness fields to create structures and systems that affect 
action51 on ending chronic homelessness across Canadian communities. Comparative analysis 
will examine points of convergence and divergence between measured policy intensity and 
stakeholder interpretations of policy alignment to reveal where technical robustness and 
perceived effectiveness diverge. 
3 Social Science Impacts: CivicInquire will be a free-to-use platform available to users from all 
relevant fields across Canada. The Future Cities Institute (FCI) at the University of Waterloo is 
committed to maintaining and updating the platform and its developed resources on an ongoing 
basis. The FCI will promote the use of the CivicInquire platform among homelessness advocates, 
practitioners, policymakers, and researchers to improve the study of homelessness in Canadian 
communities, encourage the formation of multisectoral teams addressing local practice and 
policy deficiencies, and enhance public discussion and knowledge pertaining to this issue. 
Objective 1 will take several steps to establish the foundational research, data visualization, and 
KMb infrastructure required to make homelessness policy accessible, searchable, and usable to 
multisector audiences and improve homelessness governance practice and research. The policy 
intensity review findings of O2 will provide a novel quantification of homelessness policy 
alignment in reference to multiple intersectional considerations across Canadian cities of varied 
sizes. Objective 2 will therefore produce a novel example of translating policy intensity from a 
theoretical frame into a measurable construct for homelessness policy in Canada, consequently 
providing social scientists new information to analyze policy variation, alignment, and 
institutional commitment pertaining to homelessness. Lastly, the critical policy discourse 
findings of O3 will situate the quantitative policy intensity findings of O2 within the lived policy 
interpretations of stakeholders with academic, advocacy, municipal, and practitioner 
backgrounds to illuminate the different ways in which government, development, and political 
actors understand, justify, and enact homelessness policy in their professional fields. 
Personal information will be stored in the Personal Information Bank for the appropriate program.
PROTECTED B WHEN COMPLETED

Figure 1. Project TIMELINES by Objective (July 2026 to June 2028) 
 
The primary activities of this project will proceed as follows:  
 
 
 
Objective 1: CivicInquire Development, Testing, and Optimization (Sept-Dec 2026) 
• Step 1: CivicInquire Platform Performance Testing, Launch (Sept-Oct 2026) 
• Step 2: CivicInquire Platform Knowledge User Group Review (Oct-Dec 2026)  
 
 
Objective 2: CivicInquire Homelessness Policy Intensity Review (Jan-Aug 2027) 
• Step 1: Policy Data Collection and Aggregation (Jan-Apr 2027) 
• Step 2: Policy Intensity Structure and Machine Learning Integration (Apr-Jun 2027) 
• Step 3: Policy Intensity Calculation (Jun-Aug 2027) 
 
 
Objective 3: Homelessness Policy Discourse Analysis (Sep 2027 – Mar 2028) 
• Step 1: Ethics Application Process, Recruitment (Sep-Oct 2027) 
• Step 2: Data Collection and Analysis (Oct-Dec 2027) 
• Manuscript Writing and Development of Knowledge Mobilization Materials (Dec 2027 – 
Mar 2028) 
 
 
Knowledge Mobilization Activities 
• Conference presentations (Mar-Jun 2028) 
• Refining Knowledge Mobilization Materials (Mar-Jun 2028) 
 
Personal information will be stored in the Personal Information Bank for the appropriate program.
PROTECTED B WHEN COMPLETED

LIST OF REFERENCES 
1. Statistics Canada. Homelessness: How does it happen? December 6, 2023. Accessed 
September 17, 2024. https://www.statcan.gc.ca/o1/en/plus/5170-homelessness-how-does-it-
happen 
2. Government of Canada. A review of Canadian homelessness data, 2023. June 16, 2023. 
Accessed September 16, 2024. 
https://www150.statcan.gc.ca/n1/pub/75f0002m/75f0002m2023004-eng.htm 
3. Government of Canada. Everyone Counts 2020-2022 – Results from the Third Nationally 
Coordinated Point-in-Time Counts of Homelessness in Canada. December 20, 2023. Accessed 
September 17, 2024. https://housing-infrastructure.canada.ca/homelessness-sans-abri/reports-
rapports/pit-counts-dp-2020-2022-results-resultats-eng.html 
4. Gaetz S, Gulliver T, Richter T. The State of Homelessness in Canada 2014. Canadian 
Homelessness Research Network; 2014. Accessed September 17, 2024. 
https://yorkspace.library.yorku.ca/bitstream/10315/29368/1/SOHC2014.pdf 
5. ResearchCo.ca. Seven-in-Ten Canadians See Homelessness as a Growing Problem. March 18, 
2024. Accessed June 9, 2025. https://researchco.ca/2024/03/18/homelessness-canada/ 
6. Guirguis-Younger M, Hwang SW, McNeil R. Homelessness & Health in Canada. University 
of Ottawa Press / Les Presses de l’Université d’Ottawa; 2014. doi:10.26530/OAPEN_515362 
7. Fornaro M, Dragioti E, De Prisco M, et al. Homelessness and health-related outcomes: an 
umbrella review of observational studies and randomized controlled trials. BMC Medicine. 
2022;20(1):224. doi:10.1186/s12916-022-02423-z 
8. Mitchell E, Waring T, Ahern E, O’Donovan D, O’Reilly D, Bradley DT. Predictors and 
consequences of homelessness in whole-population observational studies that used 
administrative data: a systematic review. BMC Public Health. 2023;23(1):1610. 
doi:10.1186/s12889-023-16503-z 
9. HomelessHub. The Cost of Inaction: Healthcare Expenses Associated with Homelessness in 
Toronto. October 17, 2024. Accessed June 9, 2025. https://homelesshub.ca/blog/2024/the-
cost-of-inaction-healthcare-expenses-associated-with-homelessness-in-toronto/ 
10. Government of Canada. National Housing Strategy Act. September 20, 2024. Accessed 
September 18, 2024. https://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/acts/n-11.2/FullText.html 
11. Canadian Human Rights Commission. About the National Housing Strategy Act. May 3, 
2022. Accessed September 18, 2024. https://www.housingchrc.ca/en/about-act/about-national-
housing-strategy-act 
12. Segel-Brown B. Federal Spending to Address Homelessness. Office of the Parliamentary 
Budget Officer; 2024. Accessed September 18, 2024. https://www.pbo-
Personal information will be stored in the Personal Information Bank for the appropriate program.
PROTECTED B WHEN COMPLETED

dpb.ca/en/publications/RP-2425-005-S--federal-spending-address-homelessness--depenses-
federales-matiere-itinerance 
13. Manitoba Housing and Renewal Corporation. Three Year Action Plan. Published online 
2025. 
14. Province of New Brunswick. NB Housing Strategy: Housing for All. Published online 
2025. Accessed June 9, 2025. 
https://www2.gnb.ca/content/dam/gnb/Corporate/Promo/housing-habitation/housing-for-
all.pdf#page=8.22 
15. City of New Westminster. City of New Westminster Affordable Housing Strategy 
Framework for the Future. Published online 2010. Accessed June 9, 2025. 
https://www.newwestcity.ca/database/rte/126941.PDF 
16. City of Saskatoon. Attainable Housing Strategy and Resources. 2025. Accessed June 9, 
2025. https://www.saskatoon.ca/services-residents/housing-property/attainable-
housing/attainable-housing-strategy-and-resources 
17. City of Vancouver. Housing Vancouver Strategy. 2024. Accessed June 9, 2025. 
https://vancouver.ca/people-programs/housing-vancouver-strategy.aspx 
18. Calgary Homeless Foundation. Causes of Homelessness. Calgary Homeless Foundation. 
Accessed June 9, 2025. https://www.calgaryhomeless.com/discover-learn/learn-about-
homelessness/homelessness-in-calgary/causes/ 
19. Canadian Centre for Housing Rights. Canada is failing to tackle its housing and 
homelessness crisis, and the international community is watching. March 27, 2024. Accessed 
June 9, 2025. https://housingrightscanada.com/canada-is-failing-to-tackle-its-housing-and-
homelessness-crisis-and-the-international-community-is-watching/ 
20. Gaetz S, Dej E. A New Direction: A Framework for Homelessness Prevention. Canadian 
Observatory on Homelessness Press; 2017. 
21. Government of Canada. Final report of the Advisory Committee on Homelessness. 2022. 
Accessed June 9, 2025. https://housing-infrastructure.canada.ca/homelessness-sans-
abri/reports-rapports/advisory-com-consultatif-eng.html#fn2 
22. Laird G. Homelessness in a Growth Economy: Canada’ s 21st Century Paradox A Report 
for the Sheldon Chumir Foundation for Ethics in Leadership. Sheldon Chumir Foundation for 
Ethics in Leadership; 2007. 
23. Rittel HW, Webber MM. Dilemmas in a General Theory of Planning. Policy sciences. 
1973;4(2):155-169. 
24. Gaetz S, Barr C, Friesen A, et al. Canadian Definition of Homelessness. Canadian 
Observatory on Homelessness Press; 2012. Accessed September 17, 2024. 
www.homelesshub.ca/homelessdefinition 
Personal information will be stored in the Personal Information Bank for the appropriate program.
PROTECTED B WHEN COMPLETED

25. Fowler PJ, Hovmand PS, Marcal KE, Das S. Solving Homelessness from a Complex 
Systems Perspective: Insights for Prevention Responses. Annual Review of Public Health. 
2019;40(V olume 40, 2019):465-486. doi:10.1146/annurev-publhealth-040617-013553 
26. Armbrust M, Ghodsi A, Xin R, Zaharia M. Lakehouse: a new generation of open 
platforms that unify data warehousing and advanced analytics. In: Proceedings of CIDR. V ol 
8. 2021:28. Accessed January 18, 2026. 
https://15721.courses.cs.cmu.edu/spring2023/papers/02-modern/armbrust-cidr21.pdf 
27. W3C. PROV-DM: The PROV Data Model (W3C Recommendation). Accessed January 
18, 2026. https://www.w3.org/TR/prov-dm/ 
28. Hasan L, Abuelrub E. Assessing the quality of web sites. Applied Computing and 
Informatics. 2011;9(1):11-29. doi:10.1016/j.aci.2009.03.001 
29. Mich L, Franch M, Gaio L. Evaluating and designing Web site quality. IEEE MultiMedia. 
2003;10(1):34-43. doi:10.1109/MMUL.2003.1167920 
30. Yoo S, Jin J. Evaluation of the Home Page of the Top 100 University Websites. Allied 
Academies International Conference Academy of Information and Management Sciences 
Proceedings. 2004;8(2):57-60. 
31. Gledec G. Evaluating web site quality. In: Seventh Internet Users Conference 
(CUC2005), Croatia. 2005. Accessed June 9, 2025. 
https://cuc.carnet.hr/2005/program/presentations/b1_gledec.pdf 
32. W3C. Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.2. 2023. Accessed January 17, 
2026. (W3C Recommendation). https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG22/ 
33. Brown MA, Gruen A, Maldoff G, Messing S, Sanderson Z, Zimmer M. Web scraping for 
research: Legal, ethical, institutional, and scientific considerations. Big Data & Society. 
2025;12(4):20539517251381686. doi:10.1177/20539517251381686 
34. Fiesler C, Beard N, Keegan BC. No robots, spiders, or scrapers: Legal and ethical 
regulation of data collection methods in social media terms of service. In: Proceedings of the 
International AAAI Conference on Web and Social Media. V ol 14. 2020:187-196. Accessed 
January 20, 2026. https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/icwsm/article/view/7290 
35. Zhang G, Gao Y , Li J, Su B, Chen Z, Lin W. China’s environmental policy intensity for 
1978–2019. Scientific Data. 2022;9(1):75. 
36. Xie S, Xiong H, Shang L, Bao Y . Machine Learning-Facilitated Policy Intensity Analysis: 
A Proposed Procedure and Its Application. Social Indicators Research. Published online 
2024:1-24. 
37. Schmidt TS, Sewerin S. Measuring the temporal dynamics of policy mixes–An empirical 
analysis of renewable energy policy mixes’ balance and design features in nine countries. 
Research Policy. 2019;48(10):103557. 
Personal information will be stored in the Personal Information Bank for the appropriate program.
PROTECTED B WHEN COMPLETED

38. Clinton JD, Lapinski JS. Measuring Legislative Accomplishment, 1877–1994. American 
J Political Sci. 2006;50(1):232-249. doi:10.1111/j.1540-5907.2006.00181.x 
39. Dong X, Wang C, Zhang F, Zhang H, Xia C. China’s low-carbon policy intensity dataset 
from national- to prefecture-level over 2007–2022. Sci Data. 2024;11(1):213. 
doi:10.1038/s41597-024-03033-5 
40. Ghasemi E, Majdzadeh R, Rajabi F, et al. “Applying Intersectionality in designing and 
implementing health interventions: a scoping review.” BMC Public Health. 2021;21(1):1407. 
doi:10.1186/s12889-021-11449-6 
41. Gebru T, Morgenstern J, Vecchione B, et al. Datasheets for datasets. Commun ACM. 
2021;64(12):86-92. doi:10.1145/3458723 
42. Mitchell M, Wu S, Zaldivar A, et al. Model Cards for Model Reporting. In: Proceedings 
of the Conference on Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency. ACM; 2019:220-229. 
doi:10.1145/3287560.3287596 
43. Moody CE. Mixing Dirichlet Topic Models and Word Embeddings to Make lda2vec. 
arXiv. Preprint posted online May 6, 2016. Accessed September 25, 2024. 
http://arxiv.org/abs/1605.02019 
44. Blei DM, Ng AY , Jordan MI. Latent dirichlet allocation. Journal of machine Learning 
research. 2003;3(Jan):993-1022. 
45. Reimers N, Gurevych I. Sentence-BERT: Sentence Embeddings using Siamese BERT-
Networks. arXiv. Preprint posted online August 27, 2019. doi:10.48550/arXiv.1908.10084 
46. Friedman JH. Greedy function approximation: a gradient boosting machine. Annals of 
statistics. Published online 2001:1189-1232. 
47. Lundberg SM, Lee SI. A unified approach to interpreting model predictions. Advances in 
neural information processing systems. 2017;30. Accessed January 18, 2026. 
https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/2017/hash/8a20a8621978632d76c43dfd28b67767-
Abstract.html 
48. Patton MQ. Qualitative Evaluation and Research Methods, 2nd Ed. Sage Publications, 
Inc; 1990:532. 
49. Axinn W, Pearce L. Mixed Method Data Collection Strategies. Cambridge University 
Press; 2006. 
50. Van Dijk TA. Principles of critical discourse analysis. Discourse & society. 
1993;4(2):249-283. 
51. Hodges BD, Kuper A, Reeves S. Discourse analysis. BMJ. 2008;337(aug07 3):a879-
a879. doi:10.1136/bmj.a879 
Personal information will be stored in the Personal Information Bank for the appropriate program.
PROTECTED B WHEN COMPLETED