Mitacs Accelerate  
Project Extension Request Form 
  
INSTRUCTIONS 
▪ To apply for a funding extension, applicants must complete this form, ensuring sufficient detail is 
provided for responses to be assessed by Mitacs. Please avoid using discipline specific jargon and 
refer directly to the objectives from the original application. 
▪ Applicants who have an approved Accelerate project that is may apply for a funding extension of 1 
internship unit (IU) per intern, to a maximum of 10 IUs per project, once the internship(s) being 
extended at least 75% through their original timeline, if the funding extension will be used to: 
o Complete the existing project in cases where the project has experienced delays due to 
unforeseen circumstances (e.g., lack of access to facilities due to COVID-19, samples were 
delayed due to transportation, seasonal delays in fieldwork, etc.) 
o Broaden the scope of the project (e.g., conducting additional tests, including additional 
samples, adding data sources for analysis, etc.) 
▪ In either case, the request cannot be used to add new objectives or to change existing project 
objectives. 
▪ Extensions must be requested within 4 months from when the intern completed their last IU on the 
project. In cases where a new intern is being added to the project, the request must be submitted 
within 4 months from the end of the last IU completed on the project. 
▪ If the extensions will be used to add a new intern to the project, a New Intern Profile form and the 
new intern’s CV will be required along with this completed form.  
▪ All interns must remain eligible to hold Mitacs internships for the duration of the extension period. 
▪ Completed forms should be submitted to your Mitacs Advisor.

Formulaire de demande Mitacs Accélération 
 Mitacs Accelerate Project Extension  
Last updated July 2023  
 2 of 4 
www.mitacs.ca 
 
Mitacs Accelerate Project 
Extension Request Form 
 
1.1. Title of project:  
1.2. Number of requested 
internship units (IUs): 
 
 
1.3. Partner organization’s new 
financial commitment per IU 
($7,500 per IU):  
1.4. Project  IT number:  
1.5. Date of request:  
1.6. Academic supervisor(s) name:  
 
1.7. Partner organization(s) contact 
name:  
1.8. Intern(s) name:  
 
2 Explanation of the reason for the extension request: 
If project objectives have not yet been completed, provide the reason why the project has been delayed and explain 
how an extension request will be used relative to the current status of the project. 
 
 
 
2.1 Description of the objectives that have been completed: 
Referring to the specific research objectives and milestones described in the original Accelerate proposal, describe 
what has been accomplished to date. 
 
 
 
2.2 Description of any objectives/tasks that have not been accomplished: 
Referring to the specific research objectives and milestones described in the original proposal, please indicate what 
activities remain to be completed. Outline and provide justification for any changes (achieved or expected) in the 
objectives, method, or approach from what was outlined in the original research proposal.

Formulaire de demande Mitacs Accélération 
 Mitacs Accelerate Project Extension  
Last updated July 2023  
 3 of 4 
www.mitacs.ca 
 
 
 
3 Description of any new tasks that will be completed by the intern during the extension period: 
Provide justification for any changes (project scope) in the objectives, method, or approach from what was outlined in 
the original research proposal, including how this added scope is expected to benefit project participants. 
 
 
 
4 Budget. For each internship unit (between 4-6 months duration) the intern stipend must be a 
minimum of $10,000 and the research costs must be a maximum of $5,000. 
The Partner Organization will be contributing additional funds to the project. Partner organization contributions will be 
subject to applicable taxes. 
 
Intern Name Start Date 
yyyy/mm/dd 
End Date 
yyyy/mm/dd 
Stipend Research 
Costs 
Partner 
Contribution 
Total 
Internship 
Value 
              
 
5      Signatures 
 
Academic supervisor(s):  
Name:  
Academic 
institution  
Department:  
Title/position:  
Signature:   Date: 
 
Partner organization: 
Name:  
Department:  
Title/position:

Formulaire de demande Mitacs Accélération 
 Mitacs Accelerate Project Extension  
Last updated July 2023  
 4 of 4 
www.mitacs.ca 
 
Organization:  
Total financial 
commitment: $ 
Signature:   Date: 
 
Intern(s) identification: 
Name:  
Academic 
institution 
during the 
internship: 
 
Department:  
Signature:   Date: 
 
 
Office of Research Services representative or equivalent:  
By signing, the ORS or equivalent is confirming that academic supervisor(s) can hold Tri-Agency funds.  
Name:    
Title/position:    
Academic institution:    
Signature:     Date: